docs/apache-airflow-providers-apache-spark/connections/spark.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.



.. _howto/connection:spark:

Apache Spark Connection
=======================

The Apache Spark connection type enables connection to Apache Spark.

Default Connection IDs
----------------------

Spark Submit and Spark JDBC hooks and operators use ``spark_default`` by default. Spark SQL hooks and operators point to ``spark_sql_default`` by default.

Configuring the Connection
--------------------------
Host (required)
    The host to connect to, it can be ``local``, ``yarn`` or an URL.

Port (optional)
    Specify the port in case of host be an URL.

Extra (optional)
    Specify the extra parameters (as json dictionary) that can be used in spark connection. The following parameters out of the standard python parameters are supported:

    * ``queue`` - The name of the YARN queue to which the application is submitted.
    * ``deploy-mode`` - Whether to deploy your driver on the worker nodes (cluster) or locally as an external client (client).
    * ``spark-binary`` - The command to use for Spark submit. Some distros may use ``spark2-submit``. Default ``spark-submit``. Only ``spark-submit``, ``spark2-submit`` or ``spark3-submit`` are allowed as value.
    * ``namespace`` - Kubernetes namespace (``spark.kubernetes.namespace``) to divide cluster resources between multiple users (via resource quota).

When specifying the connection in environment variable you should specify
it using URI syntax.

Note that all components of the URI should be URL-encoded. The URI and the mongo
connection string are not the same.

For example:

.. code-block:: bash

   export AIRFLOW_CONN_SPARK_DEFAULT='spark://mysparkcluster.com:80?deploy-mode=cluster&spark_binary=command&namespace=kube+namespace'

.. warning::

  Make sure you trust your users with the ability to configure the host settings as it may enable the connection to
  establish communication with external servers. It's crucial to understand that directing the connection towards a
  malicious server can lead to significant security vulnerabilities, including the risk of encountering
  Remote Code Execution (RCE) attacks.

Commit message:

Add support for Spark Connect to pyspark decorator
In Apache Spark 3.4 Spark Connect was introduced which
allows remote connectivity to remote Spark CLuster using
the DataFrame API.

docs/apache-airflow-providers-apache-spark/connections/spark.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.



.. _howto/connection:spark:

Apache Spark Connection
=======================

The Apache Spark connection type enables connection to Apache Spark.

Default Connection IDs
----------------------

Spark Submit and Spark JDBC hooks and operators use ``spark_default`` by default. Spark SQL hooks and operators point to ``spark_sql_default`` by default. The Spark Connect hook uses ``spark_connect_default`` by default.

Configuring the Connection
--------------------------
Host (required)
    The host to connect to, it can be ``local``, ``yarn`` or an URL.

Port (optional)
    Specify the port in case of host be an URL.

Extra (optional)
    Specify the extra parameters (as json dictionary) that can be used in spark connection. The following parameters out of the standard python parameters are supported:

    * ``queue`` - The name of the YARN queue to which the application is submitted.
    * ``deploy-mode`` - Whether to deploy your driver on the worker nodes (cluster) or locally as an external client (client).
    * ``spark-binary`` - The command to use for Spark submit. Some distros may use ``spark2-submit``. Default ``spark-submit``. Only ``spark-submit``, ``spark2-submit`` or ``spark3-submit`` are allowed as value.
    * ``namespace`` - Kubernetes namespace (``spark.kubernetes.namespace``) to divide cluster resources between multiple users (via resource quota).

User ID (optional, only applies to Spark Connect)
    The user ID to authenticate with the proxy.

Token (optional, only applies to Spark Connect)
    The token to authenticate with the proxy.

Use SSL (optional, only applies to Spark Connect)
    Whether to use SSL when connecting.

When specifying the connection in environment variable you should specify
it using URI syntax.

Note that all components of the URI should be URL-encoded. The URI and the mongo
connection string are not the same.

For example:

.. code-block:: bash

   export AIRFLOW_CONN_SPARK_DEFAULT='spark://mysparkcluster.com:80?deploy-mode=cluster&spark_binary=command&namespace=kube+namespace'

.. warning::

  Make sure you trust your users with the ability to configure the host settings as it may enable the connection to
  establish communication with external servers. It's crucial to understand that directing the connection towards a
  malicious server can lead to significant security vulnerabilities, including the risk of encountering
  Remote Code Execution (RCE) attacks.
