CI.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. contents:: :local:

CI Environment
==============

Continuous Integration is important component of making Apache Airflow robust and stable. We are running
a lot of tests for every pull request, for master and v1-10-test branches and regularly as CRON jobs.

Our execution environment for CI is `GitHub Actions <https://github.com/features/actions>`_. GitHub Actions
(GA) are very well integrated with GitHub code and Workflow and it has evolved fast in 2019/202 to become
a fully-fledged CI environment, easy to use and develop for, so we decided to switch to it. Our previous
CI system is Travis CI.

However part of the philosophy we have is that we are not tightly coupled with any of the CI
environments we use. Most of our CI jobs are written as bash scripts which are executed as steps in
the CI jobs and we are mapping all the CI-specific environment variables to generic "CI" variables.
The only two places where CI-specific code might be are:

- CI-specific declaration file (for example it is `<.github/workflow/ci.yml>`_ for GitHub Actions
- The ``get_ci_environment`` function in `<scripts/ci/_utils.sh>`_ where mapping is performed from
  the CI-environment specific to generic values. Example for that is CI_EVENT_TYPE variable which
  determines whether we are running a ``push``. ``schedule`` or ``pull_request`` kind of CI job. For
  GitHub Action those are values mapped from ``GITHUB_EVENT_NAME`` variable, for Travis several other
  variables were used to determine it (``TRAVIS_PULL_REQUEST``, ``TRAVIS_EVENT_TYPE``).

CI Architecture
===============

.. image:: images/CI.png
    :align: center
    :alt: CI architecture of Apache Airflow

The following components are part of the CI infrastructure

* **Apache Airflow Code Repository** - our code repository at https://github.com/apache/airflow
* **Apache Airflow Forks** - forks of the Apache Airflow Code Repository from which contributors make
  Pull Requests
* **GitHub Actions** -  (GA) UI + execution engine for our jobs
* **GA CRON trigger** - GitHub Actions CRON triggering our jobs
* **GA Workers** - virtual machines running our jobs at GitHub Actions (max 20 in parallel)
* **GitHub Private Image Registry**- image registry used as build cache for CI  jobs.
  It is at https://docker.pkg.github.com/apache/airflow/airflow
* **DockerHub Public Image Registry** - publicly available image registry at DockerHub.
  It is at https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/apache/airflow
* **DockerHub Build Workers** - virtual machines running build jibs at DockerHub
* **Official Images** (future) - these are official images that are prominently visible in DockerHub.
  We aim our images to become official images so that you will be able to pull them
  with ``docker pull apache-airflow``

CI run types
============

The following CI Job runs are currently run for Apache Airflow, and each of the runs have different
purpose and context.

* **Pull Request Run** - Those runs are results of PR from the forks made by contributors. Most builds
  for Apache Airflow fall into this category. They are executed in the context of the "Fork", not main
  Airflow Code Repository which means that they have only "read" permission to all the GitHub resources
  (container registry, code repository). This is necessary as the code in those PRs (including CI job
  definition) might be modified by people who are not committers for the Apache Airflow Code Repository.
  The main purpose of those jobs is to check if PR builds cleanly, if the test run properly and if
  the PR is ready to review and merge.
* **Direct Push/Merge Run** - Those runs are results of direct pushes done by the committers or as result
  of merge of a Pull Request by the committers. Those runs execute in the context of the Apache Airflow
  Code Repository and have also write permission for GitHub resources (container registry, code repository).
  The main purpose for the run is to check if the code after merge still holds all the assertions - like
  whether it still builds, all tests are green. This is needed because some of the conflicting changes from
  multiple PRs might cause build and test failures after merge even if they do not fail in isolation. Also
  those runs are already reviewed and confirmed by the committers so they can be used to do some housekeeping
  - for now they are pushing most recent image build in the PR to the Github Private Registry - which is our
  image cache for all the builds.
* **Scheduled Run** - those runs are results of (nightly) triggered jobs - only for well-defined branches:
  ``master`` and ``v1-10-test`` they execute nightly. Their main purpose is to check if there was no impact
  of external dependency changes on the Apache Airflow code (for example transitive dependencies released
  that fail the build). They also check if the Docker images can be build from the scratch (again - to see
  if some dependencies have not changed - for example downloaded package releases etc. Another reason for
  the nightly build is that the builds tags most recent master or v1-10-test code with "master-nightly" and
  "v1-10-test" tags respectively so that DockerHub build can pick up the moved tag and prepare a nightly
  "public" build in the DockerHub.

All runs consist of the same jobs, but the jobs behave slightly differently or they are skipped in different
run categories. Here is a summary of the run categories with regards of the jobs they are running.
Those jobs often have matrix run strategy which runs several different variations of the jobs
(with different Backend type / Python version, type of the tests to run for example)

+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Job                       | Description                                                                                                    | Pull Request Run                   | Direct Push/Merge Run           | Scheduled Run                                                        |
|                           |                                                                                                                |                                    |                                 |   (*) Builds all images from scratch                                 |
+===========================+================================================================================================================+====================================+=================================+======================================================================+
| Static checks 1           | Performs first set of static checks                                                                            | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Static checks 2           | Performs second set of static checks                                                                           | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Docs                      | Builds documentation                                                                                           | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Build Prod Image          | Builds production image                                                                                        | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Prepare Backport packages | Prepares Backport Packages for 1.10.*                                                                          | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pyfiles                   | Counts how many python files changed in the  change.Used to determine if tests should be run                   | Yes                                | Yes (but it is not used)        | Yes (but it is not used)                                             |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Tests                     | Run all the combinations of Pytest tests for Python code                                                       | Yes (if pyfiles count >0)          | Yes                             | Yes*                                                                 |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Quarantined tests         | Those are tests that are flaky and we need to fix them                                                         | Yes (if pyfiles count >0)          | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Requirements              | Checks if requirement constraints in the code are up-to-date                                                   | Yes (fails if missing requirement) | YesFails if missing requirement | Yes (Eager dependency upgradeDoes not fail for changed requirements) |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Push Prod image           | Pushes production images to GitHub Private Image RegistryThis is to cache the build images for following runs. | -                                  | Yes                             | -                                                                    |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Push CI image             | Pushes CI images to GitHub Private Image RegistryThis is to cache the build images for following runs.         | -                                  | Yes                             | -                                                                    |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Tag Repo nightly          | Tags the repository with nightly tagIt is a lightweight tag that moves nightly                                 | -                                  | -                               | Yes.Triggers DockerHub build for public registry                     |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Update documentation with clarification about v1-10-stable
The v1-10-test branch does not have it's own cron job. The
DockerHub build is triggered after manual pushing of v1-10-stable.

CI.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. contents:: :local:

CI Environment
==============

Continuous Integration is important component of making Apache Airflow robust and stable. We are running
a lot of tests for every pull request, for master and v1-10-test branches and regularly as CRON jobs.

Our execution environment for CI is `GitHub Actions <https://github.com/features/actions>`_. GitHub Actions
(GA) are very well integrated with GitHub code and Workflow and it has evolved fast in 2019/202 to become
a fully-fledged CI environment, easy to use and develop for, so we decided to switch to it. Our previous
CI system is Travis CI.

However part of the philosophy we have is that we are not tightly coupled with any of the CI
environments we use. Most of our CI jobs are written as bash scripts which are executed as steps in
the CI jobs and we are mapping all the CI-specific environment variables to generic "CI" variables.
The only two places where CI-specific code might be are:

- CI-specific declaration file (for example it is `<.github/workflow/ci.yml>`_ for GitHub Actions
- The ``get_ci_environment`` function in `<scripts/ci/_utils.sh>`_ where mapping is performed from
  the CI-environment specific to generic values. Example for that is CI_EVENT_TYPE variable which
  determines whether we are running a ``push``. ``schedule`` or ``pull_request`` kind of CI job. For
  GitHub Action those are values mapped from ``GITHUB_EVENT_NAME`` variable, for Travis several other
  variables were used to determine it (``TRAVIS_PULL_REQUEST``, ``TRAVIS_EVENT_TYPE``).

CI Architecture
===============

.. image:: images/CI.png
    :align: center
    :alt: CI architecture of Apache Airflow

The following components are part of the CI infrastructure

* **Apache Airflow Code Repository** - our code repository at https://github.com/apache/airflow
* **Apache Airflow Forks** - forks of the Apache Airflow Code Repository from which contributors make
  Pull Requests
* **GitHub Actions** -  (GA) UI + execution engine for our jobs
* **GA CRON trigger** - GitHub Actions CRON triggering our jobs
* **GA Workers** - virtual machines running our jobs at GitHub Actions (max 20 in parallel)
* **GitHub Private Image Registry**- image registry used as build cache for CI  jobs.
  It is at https://docker.pkg.github.com/apache/airflow/airflow
* **DockerHub Public Image Registry** - publicly available image registry at DockerHub.
  It is at https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/apache/airflow
* **DockerHub Build Workers** - virtual machines running build jibs at DockerHub
* **Official Images** (future) - these are official images that are prominently visible in DockerHub.
  We aim our images to become official images so that you will be able to pull them
  with ``docker pull apache-airflow``

CI run types
============

The following CI Job runs are currently run for Apache Airflow, and each of the runs have different
purpose and context.

* **Pull Request Run** - Those runs are results of PR from the forks made by contributors. Most builds
  for Apache Airflow fall into this category. They are executed in the context of the "Fork", not main
  Airflow Code Repository which means that they have only "read" permission to all the GitHub resources
  (container registry, code repository). This is necessary as the code in those PRs (including CI job
  definition) might be modified by people who are not committers for the Apache Airflow Code Repository.
  The main purpose of those jobs is to check if PR builds cleanly, if the test run properly and if
  the PR is ready to review and merge.
* **Direct Push/Merge Run** - Those runs are results of direct pushes done by the committers or as result
  of merge of a Pull Request by the committers. Those runs execute in the context of the Apache Airflow
  Code Repository and have also write permission for GitHub resources (container registry, code repository).
  The main purpose for the run is to check if the code after merge still holds all the assertions - like
  whether it still builds, all tests are green. This is needed because some of the conflicting changes from
  multiple PRs might cause build and test failures after merge even if they do not fail in isolation. Also
  those runs are already reviewed and confirmed by the committers so they can be used to do some housekeeping
  - for now they are pushing most recent image build in the PR to the Github Private Registry - which is our
  image cache for all the builds.
* **Scheduled Run** - those runs are results of (nightly) triggered job - only for ``master`` branch. The
  main purpose of the job is to check if there was no impact of external dependency changes on the Apache
  Airflow code (for example transitive dependencies released that fail the build). It also checks if the
  Docker images can be build from the scratch (again - to see if some dependencies have not changed - for
  example downloaded package releases etc. Another reason for the nightly build is that the builds tags most
  recent master with ``nightly-master`` tag so that DockerHub build can pick up the moved tag and prepare a
  nightly public master build in the DockerHub registry. The ``v1-10-test`` branch images are build in
  DockerHub when pushing ``v1-10-stable`` manually.

All runs consist of the same jobs, but the jobs behave slightly differently or they are skipped in different
run categories. Here is a summary of the run categories with regards of the jobs they are running.
Those jobs often have matrix run strategy which runs several different variations of the jobs
(with different Backend type / Python version, type of the tests to run for example)

+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Job                       | Description                                                                                                    | Pull Request Run                   | Direct Push/Merge Run           | Scheduled Run                                                        |
|                           |                                                                                                                |                                    |                                 |   (*) Builds all images from scratch                                 |
+===========================+================================================================================================================+====================================+=================================+======================================================================+
| Static checks 1           | Performs first set of static checks                                                                            | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Static checks 2           | Performs second set of static checks                                                                           | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Docs                      | Builds documentation                                                                                           | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Build Prod Image          | Builds production image                                                                                        | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Prepare Backport packages | Prepares Backport Packages for 1.10.*                                                                          | Yes                                | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pyfiles                   | Counts how many python files changed in the  change.Used to determine if tests should be run                   | Yes                                | Yes (but it is not used)        | Yes (but it is not used)                                             |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Tests                     | Run all the combinations of Pytest tests for Python code                                                       | Yes (if pyfiles count >0)          | Yes                             | Yes*                                                                 |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Quarantined tests         | Those are tests that are flaky and we need to fix them                                                         | Yes (if pyfiles count >0)          | Yes                             | Yes *                                                                |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Requirements              | Checks if requirement constraints in the code are up-to-date                                                   | Yes (fails if missing requirement) | YesFails if missing requirement | Yes (Eager dependency upgradeDoes not fail for changed requirements) |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Push Prod image           | Pushes production images to GitHub Private Image RegistryThis is to cache the build images for following runs. | -                                  | Yes                             | -                                                                    |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Push CI image             | Pushes CI images to GitHub Private Image RegistryThis is to cache the build images for following runs.         | -                                  | Yes                             | -                                                                    |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Tag Repo nightly          | Tags the repository with nightly tagIt is a lightweight tag that moves nightly                                 | -                                  | -                               | Yes.Triggers DockerHub build for public registry                     |
+---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
