UPDATING.md, before:

# Updating Airflow

This file documents any backwards-incompatible changes in Airflow and
assists people when migrating to a new version.

## Airflow 1.9

### SSH Hook updates, along with new SSH Operator & SFTP Operator

SSH Hook now uses Paramiko library to create ssh client connection, instead of sub-process based ssh command execution previously (<1.9.0), so this is backward incompatible.
  - update SSHHook constructor
  - use SSHOperator class in place of SSHExecuteOperator which is removed now. Refer test_ssh_operator.py for usage info.
  - SFTPOperator is added to perform secure file transfer from serverA to serverB. Refer test_sftp_operator.py.py for usage info.
  - No updates are required if you are using ftpHook, it will continue work as is.

### S3Hook switched to use Boto3

The airflow.hooks.S3_hook.S3Hook has been switched to use boto3 instead of the older boto (a.k.a. boto2). This result in a few backwards incompatible changes to the following classes: S3Hook:
  - the constructors no longer accepts `s3_conn_id`. It is now called `aws_conn_id`.
  - the default conneciton is now "aws_default" instead of "s3_default"
  - the return type of objects returned by `get_bucket` is now boto3.s3.Bucket
  - the return type of `get_key`, and `get_wildcard_key` is now an boto3.S3.Object.

If you are using any of these in your DAGs and specify a connection ID you will need to update the parameter name for the connection to "aws_conn_id": S3ToHiveTransfer, S3PrefixSensor, S3KeySensor, RedshiftToS3Transfer.

### Logging update

The logging structure of Airflow has been rewritten to make configuration easier and the logging system more transparent.

#### A quick recap about logging

A logger is the entry point into the logging system. Each logger is a named bucket to which messages can be written for processing. A logger is configured to have a log level. This log level describes the severity of the messages that the logger will handle. Python defines the following log levels: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR or CRITICAL.

Each message that is written to the logger is a Log Record. Each log record also has a log level indicating the severity of that specific message. A log record can also contain useful metadata that describes the event that is being logged. This can include details such as a stack trace or an error code.

When a message is given to the logger, the log level of the message is compared to the log level of the logger. If the log level of the message meets or exceeds the log level of the logger itself, the message will undergo further processing. If it doesn’t, the message will be ignored.

Once a logger has determined that a message needs to be processed, it is passed to a Handler. This configuration is now more flexible and can be easily be maintained in a single file.

#### Changes in Airflow Logging

Airflow's logging mechanism has been refactored to uses Python’s builtin `logging` module to perform logging of the application. By extending classes with the existing `LoggingMixin`, all the logging will go through a central logger. Also the `BaseHook` and `BaseOperator` already extends this class, so it is easily available to do logging.

The main benefit is easier configuration of the logging by setting a single centralized python file. Disclaimer; there is still some inline configuration, but this will be removed eventually. The new logging class is defined by setting the dotted classpath in your `~/airflow/airflow.cfg` file:

```
# Logging class
# Specify the class that will specify the logging configuration
# This class has to be on the python classpath
logging_config_class = my.path.default_local_settings.LOGGING_CONFIG
```

The logging configuration file needs to be on the `PYTHONPATH`, for example `$AIRFLOW_HOME/config`. This directory is loaded by default. Of course you are free to add any directory to the `PYTHONPATH`, this might be handy when you have the config in another directory or you mount a volume in case of Docker. 

You can take the config from `airflow/config_templates/airflow_local_settings.py` as a starting point. Copy the contents to `${AIRFLOW_HOME}/config/airflow_local_settings.py`,  and alter the config as you like.

```
LOGGING_CONFIG = {
    'version': 1,
    'disable_existing_loggers': False,
    'formatters': {
        'airflow.task': {
            'format': LOG_FORMAT,
        },
    },
    'handlers': {
        'console': {
            'class': 'logging.StreamHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'stream': 'ext://sys.stdout'
        },
        'file.task': {
            'class': 'airflow.utils.log.file_task_handler.FileTaskHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'base_log_folder': os.path.expanduser(BASE_LOG_FOLDER),
            'filename_template': FILENAME_TEMPLATE,
        },
        # When using s3 or gcs, provide a customized LOGGING_CONFIG
        # in airflow_local_settings within your PYTHONPATH, see UPDATING.md
        # for details
        's3.task': {
            'class': 'airflow.utils.log.s3_task_handler.S3TaskHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'base_log_folder': os.path.expanduser(BASE_LOG_FOLDER),
            's3_log_folder': S3_LOG_FOLDER,
            'filename_template': FILENAME_TEMPLATE,
        },
        'gcs.task': {
            'class': 'airflow.utils.log.gcs_task_handler.GCSTaskHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'base_log_folder': os.path.expanduser(BASE_LOG_FOLDER),
            'gcs_log_folder': GCS_LOG_FOLDER,
            'filename_template': FILENAME_TEMPLATE,
        },
    },
    'loggers': {
        'airflow.task': {
            'handlers': ['file.task'],
            'level': LOG_LEVEL,
            'propagate': False,
        },
        'airflow.task_runner': {
            'handlers': ['file.task'],
            'level': LOG_LEVEL,
            'propagate': True,
        },
        'airflow': {
            'handlers': ['console'],
            'level': LOG_LEVEL,
            'propagate': False,
        },
    }
}
```

If you want to customize the logging (for example, use logging rotate), you can do this by defining one or more of the logging handles that [Python has to offer](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.handlers.html). For more details about the Python logging, please refer to the [official logging documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html).

Furthermore, this change also simplifies logging within the DAG itself:

```
root@ae1bc863e815:/airflow# python
Python 3.6.2 (default, Sep 13 2017, 14:26:54)
[GCC 4.9.2] on linux
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> from airflow.settings import *
>>>
>>> from datetime import datetime
>>> from airflow import DAG
>>> from airflow.operators.dummy_operator import DummyOperator
>>>
>>> dag = DAG('simple_dag', start_date=datetime(2017, 9, 1))
>>>
>>> task = DummyOperator(task_id='task_1', dag=dag)
>>>
>>> task.log.error('I want to say something..')
[2017-09-25 20:17:04,927] {<stdin>:1} ERROR - I want to say something..
```

#### Template path of the file_task_handler

The `file_task_handler` logger is more flexible. You can change the default format, `{dag_id}/{task_id}/{execution_date}/{try_number}.log` by supplying Jinja templating in the `FILENAME_TEMPLATE` configuration variable. See the `file_task_handler` for more information.

#### I'm using S3Log or GCSLogs, what do I do!?

If you are logging to Google cloud storage, please see the [Google cloud platform documentation](https://airflow.incubator.apache.org/integration.html#gcp-google-cloud-platform) for logging instructions.

If you are using S3, the instructions should be largely the same as the Google cloud platform instructions above. You will need a custom logging config. The `REMOTE_BASE_LOG_FOLDER` configuration key in your airflow config has been removed, therefore you will need to take the following steps:
 - Copy the logging configuration from [`airflow/config_templates/airflow_logging_settings.py`](https://github.com/apache/incubator-airflow/blob/master/airflow/config_templates/airflow_local_settings.py) and copy it.
 - Place it in a directory inside the Python import path `PYTHONPATH`. If you are using Python 2.7, ensuring that any `__init__.py` files exist so that it is importable.
 - Update the config by setting the path of `REMOTE_BASE_LOG_FOLDER` explicitly in the config. The `REMOTE_BASE_LOG_FOLDER` key is not used anymore.
 - Set the `logging_config_class` to the filename and dict. For example, if you place `custom_logging_config.py` on the base of your pythonpath, you will need to set `logging_config_class = custom_logging_config.LOGGING_CONFIG` in your config as Airflow 1.8.

### New Features

#### Dask Executor

A new DaskExecutor allows Airflow tasks to be run in Dask Distributed clusters.

### Deprecated Features
These features are marked for deprecation. They may still work (and raise a `DeprecationWarning`), but are no longer
supported and will be removed entirely in Airflow 2.0
- If you're using the `google_cloud_conn_id` or `dataproc_cluster` argument names explicitly in `contrib.operators.Dataproc{*}Operator`(s), be sure to rename them to `gcp_conn_id` or `cluster_name`, respectively. We've renamed these arguments for consistency. (AIRFLOW-1323)

- `post_execute()` hooks now take two arguments, `context` and `result`
  (AIRFLOW-886)

  Previously, post_execute() only took one argument, `context`.

- `contrib.hooks.gcp_dataflow_hook.DataFlowHook` starts to use `--runner=DataflowRunner` instead of `DataflowPipelineRunner`, which is removed from the package `google-cloud-dataflow-0.6.0`.

- The pickle type for XCom messages has been replaced by json to prevent RCE attacks.
  Note that JSON serialization is stricter than pickling, so if you want to e.g. pass
  raw bytes through XCom you must encode them using an encoding like base64.
  By default pickling is still enabled until Airflow 2.0. To disable it
  Set enable_xcom_pickling = False in your Airflow config.

## Airflow 1.8.1

The Airflow package name was changed from `airflow` to `apache-airflow` during this release. You must uninstall your
previously installed version of Airflow before installing 1.8.1.

## Airflow 1.8

### Database
The database schema needs to be upgraded. Make sure to shutdown Airflow and make a backup of your database. To
upgrade the schema issue `airflow upgradedb`.

### Upgrade systemd unit files
Systemd unit files have been updated. If you use systemd please make sure to update these.

> Please note that the webserver does not detach properly, this will be fixed in a future version.

### Tasks not starting although dependencies are met due to stricter pool checking
Airflow 1.7.1 has issues with being able to over subscribe to a pool, ie. more slots could be used than were
available. This is fixed in Airflow 1.8.0, but due to past issue jobs may fail to start although their
dependencies are met after an upgrade. To workaround either temporarily increase the amount of slots above
the the amount of queued tasks or use a new pool.

### Less forgiving scheduler on dynamic start_date
Using a dynamic start_date (e.g. `start_date = datetime.now()`) is not considered a best practice. The 1.8.0 scheduler
is less forgiving in this area. If you encounter DAGs not being scheduled you can try using a fixed start_date and
renaming your dag. The last step is required to make sure you start with a clean slate, otherwise the old schedule can
interfere.

### New and updated scheduler options
Please read through these options, defaults have changed since 1.7.1.

#### child_process_log_directory
In order the increase the robustness of the scheduler, DAGS our now processed in their own process. Therefore each
DAG has its own log file for the scheduler. These are placed in `child_process_log_directory` which defaults to
`<AIRFLOW_HOME>/scheduler/latest`. You will need to make sure these log files are removed.

> DAG logs or processor logs ignore and command line settings for log file locations.

#### run_duration
Previously the command line option `num_runs` was used to let the scheduler terminate after a certain amount of
loops. This is now time bound and defaults to `-1`, which means run continuously. See also num_runs.

#### num_runs
Previously `num_runs` was used to let the scheduler terminate after a certain amount of loops. Now num_runs specifies
the number of times to try to schedule each DAG file within `run_duration` time. Defaults to `-1`, which means try
indefinitely. This is only available on the command line.

#### min_file_process_interval
After how much time should an updated DAG be picked up from the filesystem.

#### dag_dir_list_interval
How often the scheduler should relist the contents of the DAG directory. If you experience that while developing your
dags are not being picked up, have a look at this number and decrease it when necessary.

#### catchup_by_default
By default the scheduler will fill any missing interval DAG Runs between the last execution date and the current date.
This setting changes that behavior to only execute the latest interval. This can also be specified per DAG as
`catchup = False / True`. Command line backfills will still work.

### Faulty Dags do not show an error in the Web UI

Due to changes in the way Airflow processes DAGs the Web UI does not show an error when processing a faulty DAG. To
find processing errors go the `child_process_log_directory` which defaults to `<AIRFLOW_HOME>/scheduler/latest`.

### New DAGs are paused by default

Previously, new DAGs would be scheduled immediately. To retain the old behavior, add this to airflow.cfg:

```
[core]
dags_are_paused_at_creation = False
```

### Airflow Context variable are passed to Hive config if conf is specified

If you specify a hive conf to the run_cli command of the HiveHook, Airflow add some
convenience variables to the config. In case your run a sceure Hadoop setup it might be
required to whitelist these variables by adding the following to your configuration:

```
<property>
     <name>hive.security.authorization.sqlstd.confwhitelist.append</name>
     <value>airflow\.ctx\..*</value>
</property>
```
### Google Cloud Operator and Hook alignment

All Google Cloud Operators and Hooks are aligned and use the same client library. Now you have a single connection
type for all kinds of Google Cloud Operators.

If you experience problems connecting with your operator make sure you set the connection type "Google Cloud Platform".

Also the old P12 key file type is not supported anymore and only the new JSON key files are supported as a service
account.

### Deprecated Features
These features are marked for deprecation. They may still work (and raise a `DeprecationWarning`), but are no longer
supported and will be removed entirely in Airflow 2.0

- Hooks and operators must be imported from their respective submodules

  `airflow.operators.PigOperator` is no longer supported; `from airflow.operators.pig_operator import PigOperator` is.
  (AIRFLOW-31, AIRFLOW-200)

- Operators no longer accept arbitrary arguments

  Previously, `Operator.__init__()` accepted any arguments (either positional `*args` or keyword `**kwargs`) without
  complaint. Now, invalid arguments will be rejected. (https://github.com/apache/incubator-airflow/pull/1285)

### Known Issues
There is a report that the default of "-1" for num_runs creates an issue where errors are reported while parsing tasks.
It was not confirmed, but a workaround was found by changing the default back to `None`.

To do this edit `cli.py`, find the following:

```
        'num_runs': Arg(
            ("-n", "--num_runs"),
            default=-1, type=int,
            help="Set the number of runs to execute before exiting"),
```

and change `default=-1` to `default=None`. Please report on the mailing list if you have this issue.

## Airflow 1.7.1.2

### Changes to Configuration

#### Email configuration change

To continue using the default smtp email backend, change the email_backend line in your config file from:

```
[email]
email_backend = airflow.utils.send_email_smtp
```
to:
```
[email]
email_backend = airflow.utils.email.send_email_smtp
```

#### S3 configuration change

To continue using S3 logging, update your config file so:

```
s3_log_folder = s3://my-airflow-log-bucket/logs
```
becomes:
```
remote_base_log_folder = s3://my-airflow-log-bucket/logs
remote_log_conn_id = <your desired s3 connection>
```

Commit message:

[AIRFLOW-XXX] Optimize airflow scheduler

UPDATING.md, after:

# Updating Airflow

This file documents any backwards-incompatible changes in Airflow and
assists people when migrating to a new version.


## Airflow 1.9.0.4

### Add Stand-by function

Use hot stand-by function to improve the availability of the scheduler

## Airflow 1.9.0.3

### Solving deadlock

Solving the scheduler to exit unexpectedly with the database deadlock that caused by update state of task instance

## Airflow 1.9.0.2

### Scheduler optimization

The scheduler was optimized to use event mechanism to trigger scheduling, and the scheduling speed of newly added DAG files was accelerated.
  - By collecting the execution result of the task in the executor, the DAG file that has collected the result should be scheduled first, because only the task that has collected the result is most likely to need to trigger the downstream.
  - Ensure that the newly added DAG file will be scheduled in the first time, provided that it has been triggered.

Test records show that the optimized scheduler has a stable scheduling time of 3s for newly added DAG files and downstream tasks that need to be triggered

## Airflow 1.9

### SSH Hook updates, along with new SSH Operator & SFTP Operator

SSH Hook now uses Paramiko library to create ssh client connection, instead of sub-process based ssh command execution previously (<1.9.0), so this is backward incompatible.
  - update SSHHook constructor
  - use SSHOperator class in place of SSHExecuteOperator which is removed now. Refer test_ssh_operator.py for usage info.
  - SFTPOperator is added to perform secure file transfer from serverA to serverB. Refer test_sftp_operator.py.py for usage info.
  - No updates are required if you are using ftpHook, it will continue work as is.

### S3Hook switched to use Boto3

The airflow.hooks.S3_hook.S3Hook has been switched to use boto3 instead of the older boto (a.k.a. boto2). This result in a few backwards incompatible changes to the following classes: S3Hook:
  - the constructors no longer accepts `s3_conn_id`. It is now called `aws_conn_id`.
  - the default conneciton is now "aws_default" instead of "s3_default"
  - the return type of objects returned by `get_bucket` is now boto3.s3.Bucket
  - the return type of `get_key`, and `get_wildcard_key` is now an boto3.S3.Object.

If you are using any of these in your DAGs and specify a connection ID you will need to update the parameter name for the connection to "aws_conn_id": S3ToHiveTransfer, S3PrefixSensor, S3KeySensor, RedshiftToS3Transfer.

### Logging update

The logging structure of Airflow has been rewritten to make configuration easier and the logging system more transparent.

#### A quick recap about logging

A logger is the entry point into the logging system. Each logger is a named bucket to which messages can be written for processing. A logger is configured to have a log level. This log level describes the severity of the messages that the logger will handle. Python defines the following log levels: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR or CRITICAL.

Each message that is written to the logger is a Log Record. Each log record also has a log level indicating the severity of that specific message. A log record can also contain useful metadata that describes the event that is being logged. This can include details such as a stack trace or an error code.

When a message is given to the logger, the log level of the message is compared to the log level of the logger. If the log level of the message meets or exceeds the log level of the logger itself, the message will undergo further processing. If it doesn’t, the message will be ignored.

Once a logger has determined that a message needs to be processed, it is passed to a Handler. This configuration is now more flexible and can be easily be maintained in a single file.

#### Changes in Airflow Logging

Airflow's logging mechanism has been refactored to uses Python’s builtin `logging` module to perform logging of the application. By extending classes with the existing `LoggingMixin`, all the logging will go through a central logger. Also the `BaseHook` and `BaseOperator` already extends this class, so it is easily available to do logging.

The main benefit is easier configuration of the logging by setting a single centralized python file. Disclaimer; there is still some inline configuration, but this will be removed eventually. The new logging class is defined by setting the dotted classpath in your `~/airflow/airflow.cfg` file:

```
# Logging class
# Specify the class that will specify the logging configuration
# This class has to be on the python classpath
logging_config_class = my.path.default_local_settings.LOGGING_CONFIG
```

The logging configuration file needs to be on the `PYTHONPATH`, for example `$AIRFLOW_HOME/config`. This directory is loaded by default. Of course you are free to add any directory to the `PYTHONPATH`, this might be handy when you have the config in another directory or you mount a volume in case of Docker.

You can take the config from `airflow/config_templates/airflow_local_settings.py` as a starting point. Copy the contents to `${AIRFLOW_HOME}/config/airflow_local_settings.py`,  and alter the config as you like.

```
LOGGING_CONFIG = {
    'version': 1,
    'disable_existing_loggers': False,
    'formatters': {
        'airflow.task': {
            'format': LOG_FORMAT,
        },
    },
    'handlers': {
        'console': {
            'class': 'logging.StreamHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'stream': 'ext://sys.stdout'
        },
        'file.task': {
            'class': 'airflow.utils.log.file_task_handler.FileTaskHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'base_log_folder': os.path.expanduser(BASE_LOG_FOLDER),
            'filename_template': FILENAME_TEMPLATE,
        },
        # When using s3 or gcs, provide a customized LOGGING_CONFIG
        # in airflow_local_settings within your PYTHONPATH, see UPDATING.md
        # for details
        's3.task': {
            'class': 'airflow.utils.log.s3_task_handler.S3TaskHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'base_log_folder': os.path.expanduser(BASE_LOG_FOLDER),
            's3_log_folder': S3_LOG_FOLDER,
            'filename_template': FILENAME_TEMPLATE,
        },
        'gcs.task': {
            'class': 'airflow.utils.log.gcs_task_handler.GCSTaskHandler',
            'formatter': 'airflow.task',
            'base_log_folder': os.path.expanduser(BASE_LOG_FOLDER),
            'gcs_log_folder': GCS_LOG_FOLDER,
            'filename_template': FILENAME_TEMPLATE,
        },
    },
    'loggers': {
        'airflow.task': {
            'handlers': ['file.task'],
            'level': LOG_LEVEL,
            'propagate': False,
        },
        'airflow.task_runner': {
            'handlers': ['file.task'],
            'level': LOG_LEVEL,
            'propagate': True,
        },
        'airflow': {
            'handlers': ['console'],
            'level': LOG_LEVEL,
            'propagate': False,
        },
    }
}
```

If you want to customize the logging (for example, use logging rotate), you can do this by defining one or more of the logging handles that [Python has to offer](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.handlers.html). For more details about the Python logging, please refer to the [official logging documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html).

Furthermore, this change also simplifies logging within the DAG itself:

```
root@ae1bc863e815:/airflow# python
Python 3.6.2 (default, Sep 13 2017, 14:26:54)
[GCC 4.9.2] on linux
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> from airflow.settings import *
>>>
>>> from datetime import datetime
>>> from airflow import DAG
>>> from airflow.operators.dummy_operator import DummyOperator
>>>
>>> dag = DAG('simple_dag', start_date=datetime(2017, 9, 1))
>>>
>>> task = DummyOperator(task_id='task_1', dag=dag)
>>>
>>> task.log.error('I want to say something..')
[2017-09-25 20:17:04,927] {<stdin>:1} ERROR - I want to say something..
```

#### Template path of the file_task_handler

The `file_task_handler` logger is more flexible. You can change the default format, `{dag_id}/{task_id}/{execution_date}/{try_number}.log` by supplying Jinja templating in the `FILENAME_TEMPLATE` configuration variable. See the `file_task_handler` for more information.

#### I'm using S3Log or GCSLogs, what do I do!?

If you are logging to Google cloud storage, please see the [Google cloud platform documentation](https://airflow.incubator.apache.org/integration.html#gcp-google-cloud-platform) for logging instructions.

If you are using S3, the instructions should be largely the same as the Google cloud platform instructions above. You will need a custom logging config. The `REMOTE_BASE_LOG_FOLDER` configuration key in your airflow config has been removed, therefore you will need to take the following steps:
 - Copy the logging configuration from [`airflow/config_templates/airflow_logging_settings.py`](https://github.com/apache/incubator-airflow/blob/master/airflow/config_templates/airflow_local_settings.py) and copy it.
 - Place it in a directory inside the Python import path `PYTHONPATH`. If you are using Python 2.7, ensuring that any `__init__.py` files exist so that it is importable.
 - Update the config by setting the path of `REMOTE_BASE_LOG_FOLDER` explicitly in the config. The `REMOTE_BASE_LOG_FOLDER` key is not used anymore.
 - Set the `logging_config_class` to the filename and dict. For example, if you place `custom_logging_config.py` on the base of your pythonpath, you will need to set `logging_config_class = custom_logging_config.LOGGING_CONFIG` in your config as Airflow 1.8.

### New Features

#### Dask Executor

A new DaskExecutor allows Airflow tasks to be run in Dask Distributed clusters.

### Deprecated Features
These features are marked for deprecation. They may still work (and raise a `DeprecationWarning`), but are no longer
supported and will be removed entirely in Airflow 2.0
- If you're using the `google_cloud_conn_id` or `dataproc_cluster` argument names explicitly in `contrib.operators.Dataproc{*}Operator`(s), be sure to rename them to `gcp_conn_id` or `cluster_name`, respectively. We've renamed these arguments for consistency. (AIRFLOW-1323)

- `post_execute()` hooks now take two arguments, `context` and `result`
  (AIRFLOW-886)

  Previously, post_execute() only took one argument, `context`.

- `contrib.hooks.gcp_dataflow_hook.DataFlowHook` starts to use `--runner=DataflowRunner` instead of `DataflowPipelineRunner`, which is removed from the package `google-cloud-dataflow-0.6.0`.

- The pickle type for XCom messages has been replaced by json to prevent RCE attacks.
  Note that JSON serialization is stricter than pickling, so if you want to e.g. pass
  raw bytes through XCom you must encode them using an encoding like base64.
  By default pickling is still enabled until Airflow 2.0. To disable it
  Set enable_xcom_pickling = False in your Airflow config.

## Airflow 1.8.1

The Airflow package name was changed from `airflow` to `apache-airflow` during this release. You must uninstall your
previously installed version of Airflow before installing 1.8.1.

## Airflow 1.8

### Database
The database schema needs to be upgraded. Make sure to shutdown Airflow and make a backup of your database. To
upgrade the schema issue `airflow upgradedb`.

### Upgrade systemd unit files
Systemd unit files have been updated. If you use systemd please make sure to update these.

> Please note that the webserver does not detach properly, this will be fixed in a future version.

### Tasks not starting although dependencies are met due to stricter pool checking
Airflow 1.7.1 has issues with being able to over subscribe to a pool, ie. more slots could be used than were
available. This is fixed in Airflow 1.8.0, but due to past issue jobs may fail to start although their
dependencies are met after an upgrade. To workaround either temporarily increase the amount of slots above
the the amount of queued tasks or use a new pool.

### Less forgiving scheduler on dynamic start_date
Using a dynamic start_date (e.g. `start_date = datetime.now()`) is not considered a best practice. The 1.8.0 scheduler
is less forgiving in this area. If you encounter DAGs not being scheduled you can try using a fixed start_date and
renaming your dag. The last step is required to make sure you start with a clean slate, otherwise the old schedule can
interfere.

### New and updated scheduler options
Please read through these options, defaults have changed since 1.7.1.

#### child_process_log_directory
In order the increase the robustness of the scheduler, DAGS our now processed in their own process. Therefore each
DAG has its own log file for the scheduler. These are placed in `child_process_log_directory` which defaults to
`<AIRFLOW_HOME>/scheduler/latest`. You will need to make sure these log files are removed.

> DAG logs or processor logs ignore and command line settings for log file locations.

#### run_duration
Previously the command line option `num_runs` was used to let the scheduler terminate after a certain amount of
loops. This is now time bound and defaults to `-1`, which means run continuously. See also num_runs.

#### num_runs
Previously `num_runs` was used to let the scheduler terminate after a certain amount of loops. Now num_runs specifies
the number of times to try to schedule each DAG file within `run_duration` time. Defaults to `-1`, which means try
indefinitely. This is only available on the command line.

#### min_file_process_interval
After how much time should an updated DAG be picked up from the filesystem.

#### dag_dir_list_interval
How often the scheduler should relist the contents of the DAG directory. If you experience that while developing your
dags are not being picked up, have a look at this number and decrease it when necessary.

#### catchup_by_default
By default the scheduler will fill any missing interval DAG Runs between the last execution date and the current date.
This setting changes that behavior to only execute the latest interval. This can also be specified per DAG as
`catchup = False / True`. Command line backfills will still work.

### Faulty Dags do not show an error in the Web UI

Due to changes in the way Airflow processes DAGs the Web UI does not show an error when processing a faulty DAG. To
find processing errors go the `child_process_log_directory` which defaults to `<AIRFLOW_HOME>/scheduler/latest`.

### New DAGs are paused by default

Previously, new DAGs would be scheduled immediately. To retain the old behavior, add this to airflow.cfg:

```
[core]
dags_are_paused_at_creation = False
```

### Airflow Context variable are passed to Hive config if conf is specified

If you specify a hive conf to the run_cli command of the HiveHook, Airflow add some
convenience variables to the config. In case your run a sceure Hadoop setup it might be
required to whitelist these variables by adding the following to your configuration:

```
<property>
     <name>hive.security.authorization.sqlstd.confwhitelist.append</name>
     <value>airflow\.ctx\..*</value>
</property>
```
### Google Cloud Operator and Hook alignment

All Google Cloud Operators and Hooks are aligned and use the same client library. Now you have a single connection
type for all kinds of Google Cloud Operators.

If you experience problems connecting with your operator make sure you set the connection type "Google Cloud Platform".

Also the old P12 key file type is not supported anymore and only the new JSON key files are supported as a service
account.

### Deprecated Features
These features are marked for deprecation. They may still work (and raise a `DeprecationWarning`), but are no longer
supported and will be removed entirely in Airflow 2.0

- Hooks and operators must be imported from their respective submodules

  `airflow.operators.PigOperator` is no longer supported; `from airflow.operators.pig_operator import PigOperator` is.
  (AIRFLOW-31, AIRFLOW-200)

- Operators no longer accept arbitrary arguments

  Previously, `Operator.__init__()` accepted any arguments (either positional `*args` or keyword `**kwargs`) without
  complaint. Now, invalid arguments will be rejected. (https://github.com/apache/incubator-airflow/pull/1285)

### Known Issues
There is a report that the default of "-1" for num_runs creates an issue where errors are reported while parsing tasks.
It was not confirmed, but a workaround was found by changing the default back to `None`.

To do this edit `cli.py`, find the following:

```
        'num_runs': Arg(
            ("-n", "--num_runs"),
            default=-1, type=int,
            help="Set the number of runs to execute before exiting"),
```

and change `default=-1` to `default=None`. Please report on the mailing list if you have this issue.

## Airflow 1.7.1.2

### Changes to Configuration

#### Email configuration change

To continue using the default smtp email backend, change the email_backend line in your config file from:

```
[email]
email_backend = airflow.utils.send_email_smtp
```
to:
```
[email]
email_backend = airflow.utils.email.send_email_smtp
```

#### S3 configuration change

To continue using S3 logging, update your config file so:

```
s3_log_folder = s3://my-airflow-log-bucket/logs
```
becomes:
```
remote_base_log_folder = s3://my-airflow-log-bucket/logs
remote_log_conn_id = <your desired s3 connection>
```
