docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/operators/dynamodb.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

===============
Amazon DynamoDB
===============

`Amazon DynamoDB <https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/>`__ Amazon DynamoDB is a
fully managed, serverless, key-value NoSQL database designed to run
high-performance applications at any scale. DynamoDB offers built-in security,
continuous backups, automated multi-Region replication, in-memory caching, and
data import and export tools.

Prerequisite Tasks
------------------

.. include:: ../_partials/prerequisite_tasks.rst


Sensors
-------

.. _howto/sensor:DynamoDBValueSensor:

Wait on Amazon DynamoDB item attribute value match
==================================================

Use the :class:`~airflow.providers.amazon.aws.sensors.dynamodb.DynamoDBValueSensor`
to wait for the presence of a matching DynamoDB item's attribute/value pair.

.. exampleinclude:: /../../tests/system/providers/amazon/aws/example_dynamodb.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: [START howto_sensor_dynamodb_value]
    :dedent: 4
    :end-before: [END howto_sensor_dynamodb_value]


Reference
---------

* `AWS boto3 library documentation for DynamoDB <https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/dynamodb.html>`__

Commit message:

Enhance `attribute_value` in `DynamoDBValueSensor` to accept list (#35831)

docs/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/operators/dynamodb.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

===============
Amazon DynamoDB
===============

`Amazon DynamoDB <https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/>`__ Amazon DynamoDB is a
fully managed, serverless, key-value NoSQL database designed to run
high-performance applications at any scale. DynamoDB offers built-in security,
continuous backups, automated multi-Region replication, in-memory caching, and
data import and export tools.

Prerequisite Tasks
------------------

.. include:: ../_partials/prerequisite_tasks.rst


Sensors
-------

.. _howto/sensor:DynamoDBValueSensor:

Wait on Amazon DynamoDB item attribute value match
==================================================

Use the :class:`~airflow.providers.amazon.aws.sensors.dynamodb.DynamoDBValueSensor`
to wait for the presence of a matching DynamoDB item's attribute/value pair.

Wait for a Single Attribute Value Match:
----------------------------------------

This example shows how to use ``DynamoDBValueSensor`` to wait for a specific attribute/value pair in a DynamoDB item.

.. exampleinclude:: /../../tests/system/providers/amazon/aws/example_dynamodb.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: [START howto_sensor_dynamodb_value]
    :dedent: 4
    :end-before: [END howto_sensor_dynamodb_value]

Wait for Any Value from a List of Attribute Values:
---------------------------------------------------

In this example, the sensor waits for the DynamoDB item to have an attribute that matches any value from a provided list.

.. exampleinclude:: /../../tests/system/providers/amazon/aws/example_dynamodb.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: [START howto_sensor_dynamodb_any_value]
    :dedent: 4
    :end-before: [END howto_sensor_dynamodb_any_value]

Reference
---------

* `AWS boto3 library documentation for DynamoDB <https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/dynamodb.html>`__
