docs/apache-airflow-providers-apache-impala/commits.rst, before:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

 .. NOTE! THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AND WILL BE
    OVERWRITTEN WHEN PREPARING PACKAGES.

 .. IF YOU WANT TO MODIFY THIS FILE, YOU SHOULD MODIFY THE TEMPLATE
    `PROVIDER_COMMITS_TEMPLATE.rst.jinja2` IN the `dev/breeze/src/airflow_breeze/templates` DIRECTORY

 .. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-apache-impala
------------------------------------------------------

`Apache Impala <https://impala.apache.org/>`__.


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``apache.impala``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.5.0
.....

Latest change: 2024-08-12

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`fcbff15bda <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fcbff15bda151f70db0ca13fdde015bace5527c4>`_  2024-08-12   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.8.0 (#41396)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.4.2
.....

Latest change: 2024-08-03

=================================================================================================  ===========  ============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ============================================================
`d23881c648 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d23881c6489916113921dcedf85077441b44aaf3>`_  2024-08-03   ``Prepare docs for Aug 1st wave of providers (#41230)``
`bef82d6ab3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bef82d6ab38d627dc1b42981c90b9f8d36852f4c>`_  2024-07-19   ``Clean up remaining getattr connection DbApiHook (#40665)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ============================================================

1.4.1
.....

Latest change: 2024-05-26

=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================
`34500f3a2f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/34500f3a2fa4652272bc831e3c18fd2a6a2da5ef>`_  2024-05-26   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave May 2024 (#39738)``
`2b1a2f8d56 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2b1a2f8d561e569df194c4ee0d3a18930738886e>`_  2024-05-11   ``Reapply templates for all providers (#39554)``
`2c05187b07 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2c05187b07baf7c41a32b18fabdbb3833acc08eb>`_  2024-05-10   ``Faster 'airflow_version' imports (#39552)``
`73918925ed <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/73918925edaf1c94790a6ad8bec01dec60accfa1>`_  2024-05-08   ``Simplify 'airflow_version' imports (#39497)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================

1.4.0
.....

Latest change: 2024-05-01

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
`fe4605a10e <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fe4605a10e26f1b8a180979ba5765d1cb7fb0111>`_  2024-05-01   ``Prepare docs 1st wave May 2024 (#39328)``
`ead9b00f7c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ead9b00f7cd5acecf9d575c459bb62633088436a>`_  2024-04-25   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.7.0 (#39240)``
`5fa80b6aea <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5fa80b6aea60f93cdada66f160e2b54f723865ca>`_  2024-04-10   ``Prepare docs 1st wave (RC1) April 2024 (#38863)``
`83316b8158 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/83316b81584c9e516a8142778fc509f19d95cc3e>`_  2024-03-04   ``Prepare docs 1st wave (RC1) March 2024 (#37876)``
`5a0be392e6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5a0be392e66f8e5426ba3478621115e92fcf245b>`_  2024-02-16   ``Add comment about versions updated by release manager (#37488)``
`bfb054e9e8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bfb054e9e867b8b9a6a449e43bfba97f645e025e>`_  2024-02-12   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers February 2024 (#37326)``
`cead3da4a6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cead3da4a6f483fa626b81efd27a24dcb5a36ab0>`_  2024-01-26   ``Add docs for RC2 wave of providers for 2nd round of Jan 2024 (#37019)``
`2b4da0101f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2b4da0101f0314989d148c3c8a02c87e87048974>`_  2024-01-22   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers January 2024 (#36945)``
`c439ab87c4 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c439ab87c421aaa6bd5d8074780e4f63606a1ef1>`_  2024-01-10   ``Standardize airflow build process and switch to Hatchling build backend (#36537)``
`19ebcac239 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/19ebcac2395ef9a6b6ded3a2faa29dc960c1e635>`_  2024-01-07   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers January 2024 (#36640)``
`6937ae7647 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6937ae76476b3bc869ef912d000bcc94ad642db1>`_  2023-12-30   ``Speed up autocompletion of Breeze by simplifying provider state (#36499)``
`9b5d6bfe27 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9b5d6bfe273cf6af0972e28ff97f99ea325cd991>`_  2023-12-28   ``Add documentation for 3rd wave of providers in Deember (#36464)``
`b15d5578da <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b15d5578dac73c4c6a3ca94d90ab0dc9e9e74c9c>`_  2023-12-23   ``Re-apply updated version numbers to 2nd wave of providers in December (#36380)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================

1.3.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`999b70178a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/999b70178a1f5d891fd2c88af4831a4ba4c2cbc9>`_  2023-12-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers December 2023 (#36112)``
`d0918d77ee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0918d77ee05ab08c83af6956e38584a48574590>`_  2023-12-07   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.6.0 (#36017)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.2.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-11-24

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================
`0b23d5601c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b23d5601c6f833392b0ea816e651dcb13a14685>`_  2023-11-24   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers November 2023 (#35836)``
`2a469b3713 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2a469b3713d95ab15df8e9090abdb9d15e50cbb9>`_  2023-11-21   ``Remove backcompat inheritance for DbApiHook (#35754)``
`99534e47f3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99534e47f330ce0efb96402629dda5b2a4f16e8f>`_  2023-11-19   ``Use reproducible builds for provider packages (#35693)``
`99df205f42 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99df205f42a754aa67f80b5983e1d228ff23267f>`_  2023-11-16   ``Fix and reapply templates for provider documentation (#35686)``
`1b059c57d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1b059c57d6d57d198463e5388138bee8a08591b1>`_  2023-11-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers November 2023 (#35537)``
`d1c58d86de <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d1c58d86de1267d9268a1efe0a0c102633c051a1>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 - FIX (#35233)``
`3592ff4046 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3592ff40465032fa041600be740ee6bc25e7c242>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 (#35187)``
`dd7ba3cae1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/dd7ba3cae139cb10d71c5ebc25fc496c67ee784e>`_  2023-10-19   ``Pre-upgrade 'ruff==0.0.292' changes in providers (#35053)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================

1.2.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-10-13

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
`e9987d5059 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e9987d50598f70d84cbb2a5d964e21020e81c080>`_  2023-10-13   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers in October 2023 (#34916)``
`0c8e30e43b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0c8e30e43b70e9d033e1686b327eb00aab82479c>`_  2023-10-05   ``Bump min airflow version of providers (#34728)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================

1.1.3
.....

Latest change: 2023-09-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
`21990ed894 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21990ed8943ee4dc6e060ee2f11648490c714a3b>`_  2023-09-08   ``Prepare docs for 09 2023 - 1st wave of Providers (#34201)``
`9d8c77e447 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9d8c77e447f5515b9a6aa85fa72511a86a128c28>`_  2023-08-27   ``Improve modules import in Airflow providers by some of them into a type-checking block (#33754)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================

1.1.2
.....

Latest change: 2023-07-06

=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================
`225e3041d2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/225e3041d269698d0456e09586924c1898d09434>`_  2023-07-06   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (RC2) (#32381)``
`3878fe6fab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3878fe6fab3ccc1461932b456c48996f2763139f>`_  2023-07-05   ``Remove spurious headers for provider changelogs (#32373)``
`bc3b2d16d3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bc3b2d16d3563d5b9bccd283db3f9e290d1d823d>`_  2023-07-04   ``Add kerberos dependency to Impala Provider (#32304)``
`09d4718d3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/09d4718d3a46aecf3355d14d3d23022002f4a818>`_  2023-06-27   ``Improve provider documentation and README structure (#32125)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================

1.1.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-06-20

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
`79bcc2e668 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/79bcc2e668e648098aad6eaa87fe8823c76bc69a>`_  2023-06-20   ``Prepare RC1 docs for June 2023 wave of Providers (#32001)``
`547f5846bf <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/547f5846bfdf9bd973d40be2dd63484329f95dd4>`_  2023-06-20   ``Add note about dropping Python 3.7 for kafka and impala (#32017)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-05-19

=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
`45548b9451 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/45548b9451fba4e48c6f0c0ba6050482c2ea2956>`_  2023-05-19   ``Prepare RC2 docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31416)``
`abea189022 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abea18902257c0250fedb764edda462f9e5abc84>`_  2023-05-18   ``Use '__version__' in providers not 'version' (#31393)``
`f5aed58d9f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5aed58d9fb2137fa5f0e3ce75b6709bf8393a94>`_  2023-05-18   ``Fixing circular import error in providers caused by airflow version check (#31379)``
`d9ff55cf6d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d9ff55cf6d95bb342fed7a87613db7b9e7c8dd0f>`_  2023-05-16   ``Prepare docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31252)``
`eef5bc7f16 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/eef5bc7f166dc357fea0cc592d39714b1a5e3c14>`_  2023-05-03   ``Add full automation for min Airflow version for providers (#30994)``
`a7eb32a5b2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a7eb32a5b222e236454d3e474eec478ded7c368d>`_  2023-04-30   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers (#30917)``
`d23a3bbed8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d23a3bbed89ae04369983f21455bf85ccc1ae1cb>`_  2023-04-04   ``Add mechanism to suspend providers (#30422)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-01-06

=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================
`6d09fc7b88 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6d09fc7b88623919b01cfbdee5566598cefba021>`_  2023-01-06   ``Add 'ImpalaHook' (#26970)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================

Commit message:

Prepare docs for Sep 1st wave of providers

docs/apache-airflow-providers-apache-impala/commits.rst, after:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

 .. NOTE! THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AND WILL BE
    OVERWRITTEN WHEN PREPARING PACKAGES.

 .. IF YOU WANT TO MODIFY THIS FILE, YOU SHOULD MODIFY THE TEMPLATE
    `PROVIDER_COMMITS_TEMPLATE.rst.jinja2` IN the `dev/breeze/src/airflow_breeze/templates` DIRECTORY

 .. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-apache-impala
------------------------------------------------------

`Apache Impala <https://impala.apache.org/>`__.


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``apache.impala``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.5.1
.....

Latest change: 2024-08-20

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================================
`d6df0786cf <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d6df0786cfe3b7e7ded30c7fd786d685811cac52>`_  2024-08-20   ``Make kerberos an optional and devel dependency for impala and fab (#41616)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==============================================================================

1.5.0
.....

Latest change: 2024-08-19

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`75fb7acbac <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/75fb7acbaca09a040067f0a5a37637ff44eb9e14>`_  2024-08-19   ``Prepare docs for Aug 2nd wave of providers (#41559)``
`fcbff15bda <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fcbff15bda151f70db0ca13fdde015bace5527c4>`_  2024-08-12   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.8.0 (#41396)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.4.2
.....

Latest change: 2024-08-03

=================================================================================================  ===========  ============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ============================================================
`d23881c648 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d23881c6489916113921dcedf85077441b44aaf3>`_  2024-08-03   ``Prepare docs for Aug 1st wave of providers (#41230)``
`bef82d6ab3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bef82d6ab38d627dc1b42981c90b9f8d36852f4c>`_  2024-07-19   ``Clean up remaining getattr connection DbApiHook (#40665)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ============================================================

1.4.1
.....

Latest change: 2024-05-26

=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================
`34500f3a2f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/34500f3a2fa4652272bc831e3c18fd2a6a2da5ef>`_  2024-05-26   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave May 2024 (#39738)``
`2b1a2f8d56 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2b1a2f8d561e569df194c4ee0d3a18930738886e>`_  2024-05-11   ``Reapply templates for all providers (#39554)``
`2c05187b07 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2c05187b07baf7c41a32b18fabdbb3833acc08eb>`_  2024-05-10   ``Faster 'airflow_version' imports (#39552)``
`73918925ed <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/73918925edaf1c94790a6ad8bec01dec60accfa1>`_  2024-05-08   ``Simplify 'airflow_version' imports (#39497)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================

1.4.0
.....

Latest change: 2024-05-01

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
`fe4605a10e <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/fe4605a10e26f1b8a180979ba5765d1cb7fb0111>`_  2024-05-01   ``Prepare docs 1st wave May 2024 (#39328)``
`ead9b00f7c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/ead9b00f7cd5acecf9d575c459bb62633088436a>`_  2024-04-25   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.7.0 (#39240)``
`5fa80b6aea <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5fa80b6aea60f93cdada66f160e2b54f723865ca>`_  2024-04-10   ``Prepare docs 1st wave (RC1) April 2024 (#38863)``
`83316b8158 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/83316b81584c9e516a8142778fc509f19d95cc3e>`_  2024-03-04   ``Prepare docs 1st wave (RC1) March 2024 (#37876)``
`5a0be392e6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/5a0be392e66f8e5426ba3478621115e92fcf245b>`_  2024-02-16   ``Add comment about versions updated by release manager (#37488)``
`bfb054e9e8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bfb054e9e867b8b9a6a449e43bfba97f645e025e>`_  2024-02-12   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers February 2024 (#37326)``
`cead3da4a6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cead3da4a6f483fa626b81efd27a24dcb5a36ab0>`_  2024-01-26   ``Add docs for RC2 wave of providers for 2nd round of Jan 2024 (#37019)``
`2b4da0101f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2b4da0101f0314989d148c3c8a02c87e87048974>`_  2024-01-22   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers January 2024 (#36945)``
`c439ab87c4 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c439ab87c421aaa6bd5d8074780e4f63606a1ef1>`_  2024-01-10   ``Standardize airflow build process and switch to Hatchling build backend (#36537)``
`19ebcac239 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/19ebcac2395ef9a6b6ded3a2faa29dc960c1e635>`_  2024-01-07   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers January 2024 (#36640)``
`6937ae7647 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6937ae76476b3bc869ef912d000bcc94ad642db1>`_  2023-12-30   ``Speed up autocompletion of Breeze by simplifying provider state (#36499)``
`9b5d6bfe27 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9b5d6bfe273cf6af0972e28ff97f99ea325cd991>`_  2023-12-28   ``Add documentation for 3rd wave of providers in Deember (#36464)``
`b15d5578da <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b15d5578dac73c4c6a3ca94d90ab0dc9e9e74c9c>`_  2023-12-23   ``Re-apply updated version numbers to 2nd wave of providers in December (#36380)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================

1.3.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`999b70178a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/999b70178a1f5d891fd2c88af4831a4ba4c2cbc9>`_  2023-12-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers December 2023 (#36112)``
`d0918d77ee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0918d77ee05ab08c83af6956e38584a48574590>`_  2023-12-07   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.6.0 (#36017)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.2.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-11-24

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================
`0b23d5601c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b23d5601c6f833392b0ea816e651dcb13a14685>`_  2023-11-24   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers November 2023 (#35836)``
`2a469b3713 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2a469b3713d95ab15df8e9090abdb9d15e50cbb9>`_  2023-11-21   ``Remove backcompat inheritance for DbApiHook (#35754)``
`99534e47f3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99534e47f330ce0efb96402629dda5b2a4f16e8f>`_  2023-11-19   ``Use reproducible builds for provider packages (#35693)``
`99df205f42 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99df205f42a754aa67f80b5983e1d228ff23267f>`_  2023-11-16   ``Fix and reapply templates for provider documentation (#35686)``
`1b059c57d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1b059c57d6d57d198463e5388138bee8a08591b1>`_  2023-11-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers November 2023 (#35537)``
`d1c58d86de <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d1c58d86de1267d9268a1efe0a0c102633c051a1>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 - FIX (#35233)``
`3592ff4046 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3592ff40465032fa041600be740ee6bc25e7c242>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 (#35187)``
`dd7ba3cae1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/dd7ba3cae139cb10d71c5ebc25fc496c67ee784e>`_  2023-10-19   ``Pre-upgrade 'ruff==0.0.292' changes in providers (#35053)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================

1.2.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-10-13

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
`e9987d5059 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e9987d50598f70d84cbb2a5d964e21020e81c080>`_  2023-10-13   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers in October 2023 (#34916)``
`0c8e30e43b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0c8e30e43b70e9d033e1686b327eb00aab82479c>`_  2023-10-05   ``Bump min airflow version of providers (#34728)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================

1.1.3
.....

Latest change: 2023-09-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
`21990ed894 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21990ed8943ee4dc6e060ee2f11648490c714a3b>`_  2023-09-08   ``Prepare docs for 09 2023 - 1st wave of Providers (#34201)``
`9d8c77e447 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9d8c77e447f5515b9a6aa85fa72511a86a128c28>`_  2023-08-27   ``Improve modules import in Airflow providers by some of them into a type-checking block (#33754)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================

1.1.2
.....

Latest change: 2023-07-06

=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================
`225e3041d2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/225e3041d269698d0456e09586924c1898d09434>`_  2023-07-06   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (RC2) (#32381)``
`3878fe6fab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3878fe6fab3ccc1461932b456c48996f2763139f>`_  2023-07-05   ``Remove spurious headers for provider changelogs (#32373)``
`bc3b2d16d3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/bc3b2d16d3563d5b9bccd283db3f9e290d1d823d>`_  2023-07-04   ``Add kerberos dependency to Impala Provider (#32304)``
`09d4718d3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/09d4718d3a46aecf3355d14d3d23022002f4a818>`_  2023-06-27   ``Improve provider documentation and README structure (#32125)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================

1.1.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-06-20

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================
`79bcc2e668 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/79bcc2e668e648098aad6eaa87fe8823c76bc69a>`_  2023-06-20   ``Prepare RC1 docs for June 2023 wave of Providers (#32001)``
`547f5846bf <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/547f5846bfdf9bd973d40be2dd63484329f95dd4>`_  2023-06-20   ``Add note about dropping Python 3.7 for kafka and impala (#32017)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-05-19

=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
`45548b9451 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/45548b9451fba4e48c6f0c0ba6050482c2ea2956>`_  2023-05-19   ``Prepare RC2 docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31416)``
`abea189022 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abea18902257c0250fedb764edda462f9e5abc84>`_  2023-05-18   ``Use '__version__' in providers not 'version' (#31393)``
`f5aed58d9f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5aed58d9fb2137fa5f0e3ce75b6709bf8393a94>`_  2023-05-18   ``Fixing circular import error in providers caused by airflow version check (#31379)``
`d9ff55cf6d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d9ff55cf6d95bb342fed7a87613db7b9e7c8dd0f>`_  2023-05-16   ``Prepare docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31252)``
`eef5bc7f16 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/eef5bc7f166dc357fea0cc592d39714b1a5e3c14>`_  2023-05-03   ``Add full automation for min Airflow version for providers (#30994)``
`a7eb32a5b2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a7eb32a5b222e236454d3e474eec478ded7c368d>`_  2023-04-30   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers (#30917)``
`d23a3bbed8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d23a3bbed89ae04369983f21455bf85ccc1ae1cb>`_  2023-04-04   ``Add mechanism to suspend providers (#30422)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-01-06

=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================
`6d09fc7b88 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6d09fc7b88623919b01cfbdee5566598cefba021>`_  2023-01-06   ``Add 'ImpalaHook' (#26970)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================
