contributing-docs/11_provider_packages.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Provider packages
=================

Airflow 2.0 is split into core and providers. They are delivered as separate packages:

* ``apache-airflow`` - core of Apache Airflow
* ``apache-airflow-providers-*`` - More than 70 provider packages to communicate with external services

**The outline for this document in GitHub is available at top-right corner button (with 3-dots and 3 lines).**

Where providers are kept in our repository
------------------------------------------

Airflow Providers are stored in the same source tree as Airflow Core (under ``airflow.providers``) package. This
means that Airflow's repository is a monorepo, that keeps multiple packages in a single repository. This has a number
of advantages, because code and CI infrastructure and tests can be shared. Also contributions are happening to a
single repository - so no matter if you contribute to Airflow or Providers, you are contributing to the same
repository and project.

It has also some disadvantages as this introduces some coupling between those - so contributing to providers might
interfere with contributing to Airflow. Python ecosystem does not yet have proper monorepo support for keeping
several packages in one repository and being able to work on multiple of them at the same time, but we have
high hopes Hatch project that use as our recommended packaging frontend
will `solve this problem in the future <https://github.com/pypa/hatch/issues/233>`__

Therefore, until we can introduce multiple ``pyproject.toml`` for providers information/meta-data about the providers
is kept in ``provider.yaml`` file in the right sub-directory of ``airflow\providers``. This file contains:

* package name (``apache-airflow-provider-*``)
* user-facing name of the provider package
* description of the package that is available in the documentation
* list of versions of package that have been released so far
* list of dependencies of the provider package
* list of additional-extras that the provider package provides (together with dependencies of those extras)
* list of integrations, operators, hooks, sensors, transfers provided by the provider (useful for documentation generation)
* list of connection types, extra-links, secret backends, auth backends, and logging handlers (useful to both
  register them as they are needed by Airflow and to include them in documentation automatically).
* and more ...

If you want to add dependencies to the provider, you should add them to the corresponding ``provider.yaml``
and Airflow pre-commits and package generation commands will use them when preparing package information.

In Airflow 2.0, providers are separated out, and not packaged together with the core when
you build "apache-airflow" package, however when you install airflow project in editable
mode with ``pip install -e ".[devel]"`` they are available in the same environment as Airflow.

You should only update dependencies for the provider in the corresponding ``provider.yaml`` which is the
source of truth for all information about the provider.

Some of the packages have cross-dependencies with other providers packages. This typically happens for
transfer operators where operators use hooks from the other providers in case they are transferring
data between the providers. The list of dependencies is maintained (automatically with the
``update-providers-dependencies`` pre-commit) in the ``generated/provider_dependencies.json``.
Same pre-commit also updates generate dependencies in ``pyproject.toml``.

Cross-dependencies between provider packages are converted into extras - if you need functionality from
the other provider package you can install it adding [extra] after the
``apache-airflow-providers-PROVIDER`` for example:
``pip install apache-airflow-providers-google[amazon]`` in case you want to use GCP
transfer operators from Amazon ECS.

If you add a new dependency between different providers packages, it will be detected automatically during
and pre-commit will generate new entry in ``generated/provider_dependencies.json`` and update
``pyproject.toml`` so that the package extra dependencies are properly handled when package
might be installed when breeze is restarted or by your IDE or by running ``pip install -e ".[devel]"``.


Developing community managed provider packages
----------------------------------------------

While you can develop your own providers, Apache Airflow has 60+ providers that are managed by the community.
They are part of the same repository as Apache Airflow (we use ``monorepo`` approach where different
parts of the system are developed in the same repository but then they are packaged and released separately).
All the community-managed providers are in 'airflow/providers' folder and they are all sub-packages of
'airflow.providers' package. All the providers are available as ``apache-airflow-providers-<PROVIDER_ID>``
packages when installed by users, but when you contribute to providers you can work on airflow main
and install provider dependencies via ``editable`` extras - without having to manage and install providers
separately, you can easily run tests for the providers and when you run airflow from the ``main``
sources, all community providers are automatically available for you.

The capabilities of the community-managed providers are the same as the third-party ones. When
the providers are installed from PyPI, they provide the entry-point containing the metadata as described
in the previous chapter. However when they are locally developed, together with Airflow, the mechanism
of discovery of the providers is based on ``provider.yaml`` file that is placed in the top-folder of
the provider. The ``provider.yaml`` is the single source of truth for the provider metadata and it is
there where you should add and remove dependencies for providers (following by running
``update-providers-dependencies`` pre-commit to synchronize the dependencies with ``pyproject.toml``
of Airflow).

The ``provider.yaml`` file is compliant with the schema that is available in
`json-schema specification <https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/airflow/provider.yaml.schema.json>`_.

Thanks to that mechanism, you can develop community managed providers in a seamless way directly from
Airflow sources, without preparing and releasing them as packages separately, which would be rather
complicated.

Regardless if you plan to contribute your provider, when you are developing your own, custom providers,
you can use the above functionality to make your development easier. You can add your provider
as a sub-folder of the ``airflow.providers`` package, add the ``provider.yaml`` file and install airflow
in development mode - then capabilities of your provider will be discovered by airflow and you will see
the provider among other providers in ``airflow providers`` command output.


Local Release of a Specific Provider
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you develop a provider, you can release it locally and test it in your Airflow environment. This should
be accomplished using breeze. Choose a suffix for the release such as "patch.asb.1" and run the breeze build for
that provider. Remember Provider IDs use a dot ('.') for directory separators so the Provider ID for the
Microsoft Azure provider is 'microsoft.azure'. The provider IDs to build can be provided in the PACKAGE_LIST
environment variable or passed on the command line.

.. code-block:: bash

     export PACKAGE_LIST=microsoft.azure

Then build the provider (you don't need to pass the package ID if you set the environment variable above):

.. code-block:: bash

    breeze release-management prepare-provider-packages \
        --package-format both \
        --version-suffix-for-local=patch.asb.1 \
        microsoft.azure


Finally, copy the wheel file from the dist directory to the a directory your airflow deployment can use.
If this is ~/airflow/test-airflow/local_providers, you can use the following command:

``cp dist/apache_airflow_providers_microsoft_azure-10.5.2+patch.asb.1-none-any.whl ~/airflow/test-airflow/local_providers/``

If you want to build a local version of a version already released to PyPI, such as rc1, then you can combine
the PyPI suffix flag --version-suffix-for-pypi with the local suffix flag --version-suffix-for-local. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

    breeze release-management prepare-provider-packages \
        --package-format both \
        --version-suffix-for-pypi rc1 \
        --version-suffix-for-local=patch.asb.1 \
        microsoft.azure


The above would result in a wheel file

    apache_airflow_providers_microsoft_azure-10.5.2rc1+patch.asb.1-py3-none-any.whl

Builds using a local suffix will not check to see if a release has already been made. This is useful for testing.

Local versions can also be built using the version-suffix-for-pypi flag although using the version-suffix-for-local
flag is preferred. To build with the version-suffix-for-pypi flag, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    breeze release-management prepare-provider-packages \
        --package-format both --version-suffix-for-pypi=dev1 \
        --skip-tag-check microsoft.azure


Naming Conventions for provider packages
----------------------------------------

In Airflow 2.0 we standardized and enforced naming for provider packages, modules and classes.
those rules (introduced as AIP-21) were not only introduced but enforced using automated checks
that verify if the naming conventions are followed. Here is a brief summary of the rules, for
detailed discussion you can go to `AIP-21 Changes in import paths <https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AIRFLOW/AIP-21%3A+Changes+in+import+paths>`_

The rules are as follows:

* Provider packages are all placed in 'airflow.providers'

* Providers are usually direct sub-packages of the 'airflow.providers' package but in some cases they can be
  further split into sub-packages (for example 'apache' package has 'cassandra', 'druid' ... providers ) out
  of which several different provider packages are produced (apache.cassandra, apache.druid). This is
  case when the providers are connected under common umbrella but very loosely coupled on the code level.
  Please note the separator of the provider-package ID is a period, not a dash like the package names in PyPI(microsoft.azure vs apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure).

* In some cases the package can have sub-packages but they are all delivered as single provider
  package (for example 'google' package contains 'ads', 'cloud' etc. sub-packages). This is in case
  the providers are connected under common umbrella and they are also tightly coupled on the code level.

* Typical structure of provider package:
    * example_dags -> example DAGs are stored here (used for documentation and System Tests)
    * hooks -> hooks are stored here
    * operators -> operators are stored here
    * sensors -> sensors are stored here
    * secrets -> secret backends are stored here
    * transfers -> transfer operators are stored here

* Module names do not contain word "hooks", "operators" etc. The right type comes from
  the package. For example 'hooks.datastore' module contains DataStore hook and 'operators.datastore'
  contains DataStore operators.

* Class names contain 'Operator', 'Hook', 'Sensor' - for example DataStoreHook, DataStoreExportOperator

* Operator name usually follows the convention: ``<Subject><Action><Entity>Operator``
  (BigQueryExecuteQueryOperator) is a good example

* Transfer Operators are those that actively push data from one service/provider and send it to another
  service (might be for the same or another provider). This usually involves two hooks. The convention
  for those ``<Source>To<Destination>Operator``. They are not named *TransferOperator nor *Transfer.

* Operators that use external service to perform transfer (for example CloudDataTransferService operators
  are not placed in "transfers" package and do not have to follow the naming convention for
  transfer operators.

* It is often debatable where to put transfer operators but we agreed to the following criteria:

  * We use "maintainability" of the operators as the main criteria - so the transfer operator
    should be kept at the provider which has highest "interest" in the transfer operator

  * For Cloud Providers or Service providers that usually means that the transfer operators
    should land at the "target" side of the transfer

* Secret Backend name follows the convention: ``<SecretEngine>Backend``.

* Tests are grouped in parallel packages under "tests.providers" top level package. Module name is usually
  ``test_<object_to_test>.py``,

* System tests (not yet fully automated but allowing to run e2e testing of particular provider) are
  named with _system.py suffix.

Documentation for the community managed providers
-------------------------------------------------

When you are developing a community-managed provider, you are supposed to make sure it is well tested
and documented. Part of the documentation is ``provider.yaml`` file ``integration`` information and
``version`` information. This information is stripped-out from provider info available at runtime,
however it is used to automatically generate documentation for the provider.

If you have pre-commits installed, pre-commit will warn you and let you know what changes need to be
done in the ``provider.yaml`` file when you add a new Operator, Hooks, Sensor or Transfer. You can
also take a look at the other ``provider.yaml`` files as examples.

Well documented provider contains those:

* index.rst with references to packages, API used and example dags
* configuration reference
* class documentation generated from PyDoc in the code
* example dags
* how-to guides

You can see for example ``google`` provider which has very comprehensive documentation:

* `Documentation <../docs/apache-airflow-providers-google>`_
* `System tests/Example DAGs <../tests/system/providers>`_

Part of the documentation are example dags (placed in the ``tests/system`` folder). The reason why
they are in ``tests/system`` is because we are using the example dags for various purposes:

* showing real examples of how your provider classes (Operators/Sensors/Transfers) can be used
* snippets of the examples are embedded in the documentation via ``exampleinclude::`` directive
* examples are executable as system tests and some of our stakeholders run them regularly to
  check if ``system`` level integration is still working, before releasing a new version of the provider.

Testing the community managed providers
---------------------------------------

We have high requirements when it comes to testing the community managed providers. We have to be sure
that we have enough coverage and ways to tests for regressions before the community accepts such
providers.

* Unit tests have to be comprehensive and they should tests for possible regressions and edge cases
  not only "green path"

* Integration tests where 'local' integration with a component is possible (for example tests with
  MySQL/Postgres DB/Trino/Kerberos all have integration tests which run with real, dockerized components

* System Tests which provide end-to-end testing, usually testing together several operators, sensors,
  transfers connecting to a real external system

Breaking changes in the community managed providers
---------------------------------------------------

Sometimes we have to introduce breaking changes in the providers. We have to be very careful with that
and we have to make sure that we communicate those changes properly.

Generally speaking breaking change in provider is not a huge problem for our users. They can individually
downgrade the providers to lower version if they are not ready to upgrade to the new version and then
incrementally upgrade to the new versions of providers. This is because providers are installed as
separate packages and they are not tightly coupled with the core of Airflow and because we have a very
generous policy of supporting multiple versions of providers at the same time. All providers are in theory
backward compatible with future versions of Airflow, so you can upgrade Airflow and keep the providers
at the same version.

When you introduce a breaking change in the provider, you have to make sure that you communicate it
properly. You have to update ``CHANGELOG.rst`` file in the provider package. Ideally you should provide
a migration path for the users to follow in the``CHANGELOG.rst``.

If in doubt, you can always look at ``CHANGELOG.rst``  in other providers to see how we communicate
breaking changes in the providers.

It's important to note that the marking release as breaking / major is subject to the
judgment of release manager upon preparing the release.

Bumping minimum version of dependencies in providers
----------------------------------------------------

Generally speaking we are rather relaxed when it comes to bumping minimum versions of dependencies in the
providers. If there is a good reason to bump the minimum version of the dependency, you should simply do it.
This is because user might always install previous version of the provider if they are not ready to upgrade
the dependency (because for example another library of theirs is not compatible with the new version of the
dependency). In most case this will be actually transparent for the user because ``pip`` in most cases will
find and install a previous version of the provider that is compatible with your dependencies that conflict
with latest version of the provider.

------

You can read about airflow `dependencies and extras <12_airflow_dependencies_and_extras.rst>`_ .

Commit message:

Remove reference to hatch and add uv usage

contributing-docs/11_provider_packages.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Provider packages
=================

Airflow 2.0 is split into core and providers. They are delivered as separate packages:

* ``apache-airflow`` - core of Apache Airflow
* ``apache-airflow-providers-*`` - More than 70 provider packages to communicate with external services

**The outline for this document in GitHub is available at top-right corner button (with 3-dots and 3 lines).**

Where providers are kept in our repository
------------------------------------------

Airflow Providers are stored in the same source tree as Airflow Core (under ``airflow.providers``) package. This
means that Airflow's repository is a monorepo, that keeps multiple packages in a single repository. This has a number
of advantages, because code and CI infrastructure and tests can be shared. Also contributions are happening to a
single repository - so no matter if you contribute to Airflow or Providers, you are contributing to the same
repository and project.

It has also some disadvantages as this introduces some coupling between those - so contributing to providers might
interfere with contributing to Airflow. Python ecosystem does not yet have proper monorepo support for keeping
several packages in one repository and being able to work on multiple of them at the same time. The tool ``uv`` is 
recommended to help mange this through it's ``workspace`` feature. While developing, dependencies and extras for a
provider can be installed using ``uv``'s ``sync`` command:

.. code:: bash

    uv sync --extra devel --extra devel-tests --extra google

This will synchronize all extras that you need for development and testing of Airflow and google provider
dependencies - including their runtime dependencies.

See `local virtualenv <../07_local_virtualenv.rst>`_ or the uv proejct for more information.


Therefore, until we can introduce multiple ``pyproject.toml`` for providers information/meta-data about the providers
is kept in ``provider.yaml`` file in the right sub-directory of ``airflow\providers``. This file contains:

* package name (``apache-airflow-provider-*``)
* user-facing name of the provider package
* description of the package that is available in the documentation
* list of versions of package that have been released so far
* list of dependencies of the provider package
* list of additional-extras that the provider package provides (together with dependencies of those extras)
* list of integrations, operators, hooks, sensors, transfers provided by the provider (useful for documentation generation)
* list of connection types, extra-links, secret backends, auth backends, and logging handlers (useful to both
  register them as they are needed by Airflow and to include them in documentation automatically).
* and more ...

If you want to add dependencies to the provider, you should add them to the corresponding ``provider.yaml``
and Airflow pre-commits and package generation commands will use them when preparing package information.

In Airflow 2.0, providers are separated out, and not packaged together with the core when
you build "apache-airflow" package, however when you install airflow project in editable
mode with ``pip install -e ".[devel]"`` they are available in the same environment as Airflow.

You should only update dependencies for the provider in the corresponding ``provider.yaml`` which is the
source of truth for all information about the provider.

Some of the packages have cross-dependencies with other providers packages. This typically happens for
transfer operators where operators use hooks from the other providers in case they are transferring
data between the providers. The list of dependencies is maintained (automatically with the
``update-providers-dependencies`` pre-commit) in the ``generated/provider_dependencies.json``.
Same pre-commit also updates generate dependencies in ``pyproject.toml``.

Cross-dependencies between provider packages are converted into extras - if you need functionality from
the other provider package you can install it adding [extra] after the
``apache-airflow-providers-PROVIDER`` for example:
``pip install apache-airflow-providers-google[amazon]`` in case you want to use GCP
transfer operators from Amazon ECS.

If you add a new dependency between different providers packages, it will be detected automatically during
and pre-commit will generate new entry in ``generated/provider_dependencies.json`` and update
``pyproject.toml`` so that the package extra dependencies are properly handled when package
might be installed when breeze is restarted or by your IDE or by running ``pip install -e ".[devel]"``.


Developing community managed provider packages
----------------------------------------------

While you can develop your own providers, Apache Airflow has 60+ providers that are managed by the community.
They are part of the same repository as Apache Airflow (we use ``monorepo`` approach where different
parts of the system are developed in the same repository but then they are packaged and released separately).
All the community-managed providers are in 'airflow/providers' folder and they are all sub-packages of
'airflow.providers' package. All the providers are available as ``apache-airflow-providers-<PROVIDER_ID>``
packages when installed by users, but when you contribute to providers you can work on airflow main
and install provider dependencies via ``editable`` extras - without having to manage and install providers
separately, you can easily run tests for the providers and when you run airflow from the ``main``
sources, all community providers are automatically available for you.

The capabilities of the community-managed providers are the same as the third-party ones. When
the providers are installed from PyPI, they provide the entry-point containing the metadata as described
in the previous chapter. However when they are locally developed, together with Airflow, the mechanism
of discovery of the providers is based on ``provider.yaml`` file that is placed in the top-folder of
the provider. The ``provider.yaml`` is the single source of truth for the provider metadata and it is
there where you should add and remove dependencies for providers (following by running
``update-providers-dependencies`` pre-commit to synchronize the dependencies with ``pyproject.toml``
of Airflow).

The ``provider.yaml`` file is compliant with the schema that is available in
`json-schema specification <https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/airflow/provider.yaml.schema.json>`_.

Thanks to that mechanism, you can develop community managed providers in a seamless way directly from
Airflow sources, without preparing and releasing them as packages separately, which would be rather
complicated.

Regardless if you plan to contribute your provider, when you are developing your own, custom providers,
you can use the above functionality to make your development easier. You can add your provider
as a sub-folder of the ``airflow.providers`` package, add the ``provider.yaml`` file and install airflow
in development mode - then capabilities of your provider will be discovered by airflow and you will see
the provider among other providers in ``airflow providers`` command output.


Local Release of a Specific Provider
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you develop a provider, you can release it locally and test it in your Airflow environment. This should
be accomplished using breeze. Choose a suffix for the release such as "patch.asb.1" and run the breeze build for
that provider. Remember Provider IDs use a dot ('.') for directory separators so the Provider ID for the
Microsoft Azure provider is 'microsoft.azure'. The provider IDs to build can be provided in the PACKAGE_LIST
environment variable or passed on the command line.

.. code-block:: bash

     export PACKAGE_LIST=microsoft.azure

Then build the provider (you don't need to pass the package ID if you set the environment variable above):

.. code-block:: bash

    breeze release-management prepare-provider-packages \
        --package-format both \
        --version-suffix-for-local=patch.asb.1 \
        microsoft.azure


Finally, copy the wheel file from the dist directory to the a directory your airflow deployment can use.
If this is ~/airflow/test-airflow/local_providers, you can use the following command:

``cp dist/apache_airflow_providers_microsoft_azure-10.5.2+patch.asb.1-none-any.whl ~/airflow/test-airflow/local_providers/``

If you want to build a local version of a version already released to PyPI, such as rc1, then you can combine
the PyPI suffix flag --version-suffix-for-pypi with the local suffix flag --version-suffix-for-local. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

    breeze release-management prepare-provider-packages \
        --package-format both \
        --version-suffix-for-pypi rc1 \
        --version-suffix-for-local=patch.asb.1 \
        microsoft.azure


The above would result in a wheel file

    apache_airflow_providers_microsoft_azure-10.5.2rc1+patch.asb.1-py3-none-any.whl

Builds using a local suffix will not check to see if a release has already been made. This is useful for testing.

Local versions can also be built using the version-suffix-for-pypi flag although using the version-suffix-for-local
flag is preferred. To build with the version-suffix-for-pypi flag, use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    breeze release-management prepare-provider-packages \
        --package-format both --version-suffix-for-pypi=dev1 \
        --skip-tag-check microsoft.azure


Naming Conventions for provider packages
----------------------------------------

In Airflow 2.0 we standardized and enforced naming for provider packages, modules and classes.
those rules (introduced as AIP-21) were not only introduced but enforced using automated checks
that verify if the naming conventions are followed. Here is a brief summary of the rules, for
detailed discussion you can go to `AIP-21 Changes in import paths <https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AIRFLOW/AIP-21%3A+Changes+in+import+paths>`_

The rules are as follows:

* Provider packages are all placed in 'airflow.providers'

* Providers are usually direct sub-packages of the 'airflow.providers' package but in some cases they can be
  further split into sub-packages (for example 'apache' package has 'cassandra', 'druid' ... providers ) out
  of which several different provider packages are produced (apache.cassandra, apache.druid). This is
  case when the providers are connected under common umbrella but very loosely coupled on the code level.
  Please note the separator of the provider-package ID is a period, not a dash like the package names in PyPI(microsoft.azure vs apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure).

* In some cases the package can have sub-packages but they are all delivered as single provider
  package (for example 'google' package contains 'ads', 'cloud' etc. sub-packages). This is in case
  the providers are connected under common umbrella and they are also tightly coupled on the code level.

* Typical structure of provider package:
    * example_dags -> example DAGs are stored here (used for documentation and System Tests)
    * hooks -> hooks are stored here
    * operators -> operators are stored here
    * sensors -> sensors are stored here
    * secrets -> secret backends are stored here
    * transfers -> transfer operators are stored here

* Module names do not contain word "hooks", "operators" etc. The right type comes from
  the package. For example 'hooks.datastore' module contains DataStore hook and 'operators.datastore'
  contains DataStore operators.

* Class names contain 'Operator', 'Hook', 'Sensor' - for example DataStoreHook, DataStoreExportOperator

* Operator name usually follows the convention: ``<Subject><Action><Entity>Operator``
  (BigQueryExecuteQueryOperator) is a good example

* Transfer Operators are those that actively push data from one service/provider and send it to another
  service (might be for the same or another provider). This usually involves two hooks. The convention
  for those ``<Source>To<Destination>Operator``. They are not named *TransferOperator nor *Transfer.

* Operators that use external service to perform transfer (for example CloudDataTransferService operators
  are not placed in "transfers" package and do not have to follow the naming convention for
  transfer operators.

* It is often debatable where to put transfer operators but we agreed to the following criteria:

  * We use "maintainability" of the operators as the main criteria - so the transfer operator
    should be kept at the provider which has highest "interest" in the transfer operator

  * For Cloud Providers or Service providers that usually means that the transfer operators
    should land at the "target" side of the transfer

* Secret Backend name follows the convention: ``<SecretEngine>Backend``.

* Tests are grouped in parallel packages under "tests.providers" top level package. Module name is usually
  ``test_<object_to_test>.py``,

* System tests (not yet fully automated but allowing to run e2e testing of particular provider) are
  named with _system.py suffix.

Documentation for the community managed providers
-------------------------------------------------

When you are developing a community-managed provider, you are supposed to make sure it is well tested
and documented. Part of the documentation is ``provider.yaml`` file ``integration`` information and
``version`` information. This information is stripped-out from provider info available at runtime,
however it is used to automatically generate documentation for the provider.

If you have pre-commits installed, pre-commit will warn you and let you know what changes need to be
done in the ``provider.yaml`` file when you add a new Operator, Hooks, Sensor or Transfer. You can
also take a look at the other ``provider.yaml`` files as examples.

Well documented provider contains those:

* index.rst with references to packages, API used and example dags
* configuration reference
* class documentation generated from PyDoc in the code
* example dags
* how-to guides

You can see for example ``google`` provider which has very comprehensive documentation:

* `Documentation <../docs/apache-airflow-providers-google>`_
* `System tests/Example DAGs <../tests/system/providers>`_

Part of the documentation are example dags (placed in the ``tests/system`` folder). The reason why
they are in ``tests/system`` is because we are using the example dags for various purposes:

* showing real examples of how your provider classes (Operators/Sensors/Transfers) can be used
* snippets of the examples are embedded in the documentation via ``exampleinclude::`` directive
* examples are executable as system tests and some of our stakeholders run them regularly to
  check if ``system`` level integration is still working, before releasing a new version of the provider.

Testing the community managed providers
---------------------------------------

We have high requirements when it comes to testing the community managed providers. We have to be sure
that we have enough coverage and ways to tests for regressions before the community accepts such
providers.

* Unit tests have to be comprehensive and they should tests for possible regressions and edge cases
  not only "green path"

* Integration tests where 'local' integration with a component is possible (for example tests with
  MySQL/Postgres DB/Trino/Kerberos all have integration tests which run with real, dockerized components

* System Tests which provide end-to-end testing, usually testing together several operators, sensors,
  transfers connecting to a real external system

Breaking changes in the community managed providers
---------------------------------------------------

Sometimes we have to introduce breaking changes in the providers. We have to be very careful with that
and we have to make sure that we communicate those changes properly.

Generally speaking breaking change in provider is not a huge problem for our users. They can individually
downgrade the providers to lower version if they are not ready to upgrade to the new version and then
incrementally upgrade to the new versions of providers. This is because providers are installed as
separate packages and they are not tightly coupled with the core of Airflow and because we have a very
generous policy of supporting multiple versions of providers at the same time. All providers are in theory
backward compatible with future versions of Airflow, so you can upgrade Airflow and keep the providers
at the same version.

When you introduce a breaking change in the provider, you have to make sure that you communicate it
properly. You have to update ``CHANGELOG.rst`` file in the provider package. Ideally you should provide
a migration path for the users to follow in the``CHANGELOG.rst``.

If in doubt, you can always look at ``CHANGELOG.rst``  in other providers to see how we communicate
breaking changes in the providers.

It's important to note that the marking release as breaking / major is subject to the
judgment of release manager upon preparing the release.

Bumping minimum version of dependencies in providers
----------------------------------------------------

Generally speaking we are rather relaxed when it comes to bumping minimum versions of dependencies in the
providers. If there is a good reason to bump the minimum version of the dependency, you should simply do it.
This is because user might always install previous version of the provider if they are not ready to upgrade
the dependency (because for example another library of theirs is not compatible with the new version of the
dependency). In most case this will be actually transparent for the user because ``pip`` in most cases will
find and install a previous version of the provider that is compatible with your dependencies that conflict
with latest version of the provider.

------

You can read about airflow `dependencies and extras <12_airflow_dependencies_and_extras.rst>`_ .
