 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Node.js Environment Setup
=========================

Contributing to the UI in Airflow
---------------------------------

In Airflow 3, we are moving the UI away from Flask App Builder views to a pure React powered frontend living at ``airflow/ui``.
During 3.0 development, we will need to run both the new and legacy UIs at the same time until the new UI is feature-complete.
But we want to limit modifications to the legacy ``airflow/www`` views, to mainly three rules:

1. Bug fixes to cherry pick for 2.10.x and 2.11
2. The minimum necessary to unblock other Airflow 3.0 feature work
3. Fixes to react views which we haven't migrated over yet, but can still be ported over to the new UI

Custom endpoints for the UI will also be moved away from ``airflow/www/views.py`` and to ``airflow/api_fastapi``.
Contributions to the legacy views file will follow the same rules.
Committers will exercise their judgement on what endpoints should exist in the public ``airflow/api_connexion`` versus the private ``airflow/api_fastapi``

Airflow UI
----------

``airflow/ui`` is our React frontend powered. Dependencies are managed by pnpm and dev/build processes by `Vite <https://vitejs.dev/guide/>`__.
Make sure you are using recent versions of ``pnpm>=9`` and ``node>=20``. ``breeze start-airflow`` will build the UI automatically.
Adding the ``--dev-mode`` flag will automatically run the vite dev server for hot reloading the UI during local development.

pnpm commands
-------------

Follow the `pnpm docs <https://pnpm.io/installation>`__ to install pnpm locally and `nvm <https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm>`__ to manage your node version.

.. code-block:: bash

    # install dependencies
    pnpm install

    # Run vite dev server for local development.
    # The dev server will run on a different port than Airflow. To use the UI, access it through wherever your Airflow webserver is running, usually 8080 or 28080.
    # Trying to use the UI from the Vite port (5173) will lead to auth errors.
    pnpm dev

    # Generate production build files will be at airflow/ui/dist
    pnpm build

    # Format code in .ts, .tsx, .json, .css, .html files
    pnpm format

    # Check JS/TS code in .ts, .tsx, .html files and report any errors/warnings
    pnpm lint

    # Check JS/TS code in .ts, .tsx, .html files and report any errors/warnings and fix them if possible
    pnpm lint:fix

    # Run tests for all .test.ts, test.tsx files
    pnpm test

    # Run coverage
    pnpm coverage

    # Generate queries and types from the REST API OpenAPI spec
    pnpm codegen

Project Structure
-----------------

- ``/openapi`` autogenerated types and queries based on the public REST API openapi spec. Do not manually edit.
- ``/src/assets`` static assets for the UI
- ``/src/components`` shared components across the UI
- ``/dist`` build files

Local Environment Variables
---------------------------

Copy the example environment

.. code-block:: bash

    cp .env.example .env.local

DEPRECATED Airflow WWW
----------------------

``airflow/www/`` contains all yarn-managed, front-end assets. Flask-Appbuilder
itself comes bundled with jQuery and bootstrap. While they may be phased out
over time, these packages are currently not managed with yarn.

Make sure you are using recent versions of node and yarn. No problems have been
found with node\>=8.11.3 and yarn\>=1.19.1. The pre-commit framework of ours install
node and yarn automatically when installed - if you use ``breeze`` you do not need to install
neither node nor yarn.

**The outline for this document in GitHub is available at top-right corner button (with 3-dots and 3 lines).**

Installing yarn and its packages manually
-----------------------------------------

To install yarn on macOS:

1.  Run the following commands (taken from `this source <https://gist.github.com/DanHerbert/9520689>`__):

.. code-block:: bash

    brew install node
    brew install yarn
    yarn config set prefix ~/.yarn


2.  Add ``~/.yarn/bin`` to your ``PATH`` so that commands you are installing
    could be used globally.

3.  Set up your ``.bashrc`` file and then ``source ~/.bashrc`` to reflect the
    change.

.. code-block:: bash

    export PATH="$HOME/.yarn/bin:$PATH"

4.  Install third-party libraries defined in ``package.json`` by running the following command

.. code-block:: bash

    yarn install

Generate Bundled Files with yarn
--------------------------------

To parse and generate bundled files for Airflow, run either of the following
commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Compiles the production / optimized js & css
    yarn run prod

    # Starts a web server that manages and updates your assets as you modify them
    # You'll need to run the webserver in debug mode too: ``airflow webserver -d``
    yarn run dev

Follow Style Guide
------------------

We try to enforce a more consistent style and follow the Javascript/Typescript community
guidelines.

Once you add or modify any JS/TS code in the project, please make sure it
follows the guidelines defined in `Airbnb
JavaScript Style Guide <https://github.com/airbnb/javascript>`__.

Apache Airflow uses `ESLint <https://eslint.org/>`__ as a tool for identifying and
reporting issues in JS/TS, and `Prettier <https://prettier.io/>`__ for code formatting.
Most IDE directly integrate with these tools, you can also manually run them with any of the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Format code in .js, .jsx, .ts, .tsx, .json, .css, .html files
    yarn format

    # Check JS/TS code in .js, .jsx, .ts, .tsx, .html files and report any errors/warnings
    yarn run lint

    # Check JS/TS code in .js, .jsx, .ts, .tsx, .html files and report any errors/warnings and fix them if possible
    yarn run lint:fix

    # Run tests for all .test.js, .test.jsx, .test.ts, test.tsx files
    yarn test

React, JSX and Chakra
---------------------

In order to create a more modern UI, we have started to include `React <https://reactjs.org/>`__ in the ``airflow/www/`` project.
If you are unfamiliar with React then it is recommended to check out their documentation to understand components and jsx syntax.

We are using `Chakra UI <https://chakra-ui.com/>`__ as a component and styling library. Notably, all styling is done in a theme file or
inline when defining a component. There are a few shorthand style props like ``px`` instead of ``padding-right, padding-left``.
To make this work, all Chakra styling and css styling are completely separate. It is best to think of the React components as a separate app
that lives inside of the main app.

------

If you happen to change architecture of Airflow, you can learn how we create our `Architecture diagrams <15_architecture_diagrams.rst>`__.
