.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Problems and issues with code or docs
title: ''
labels: 'kind:bug'
assignees: ''

---

<!--

Welcome to Apache Airflow!  For a smooth issue process, try to answer the following questions.
Don't worry if they're not all applicable; just try to include what you can :-)

If you need to include code snippets or logs, please put them in fenced code
blocks.  If they're super-long, please use the details tag like
<details><summary>super-long log</summary> lots of stuff </details>

Please delete these comment blocks before submitting the issue.

-->

<!--

IMPORTANT!!!

Please complete the next sections or the issue will be closed.
This questions are the first thing we need to know to understand the context.

-->

**Apache Airflow version**:

**What happened**:

<!-- (please include exact error messages if you can) -->

**What you expected to happen**:

<!-- What do you think went wrong? -->

**How to reproduce it**:
<!---

As minimally and precisely as possible. Keep in mind we do not have access to your cluster or dags.

--->

**Anything else we need to know**:

<!--

How often does this problem occur? Once? Every time etc?

Any relevant logs to include? Put them here in side a detail tag:
<details><summary>x.log</summary> lots of stuff </details>

-->

Commit message:

add kubernetes instructions to bug_report

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Problems and issues with code or docs
title: ''
labels: 'kind:bug'
assignees: ''

---

<!--

Welcome to Apache Airflow!  For a smooth issue process, try to answer the following questions.
Don't worry if they're not all applicable; just try to include what you can :-)

If you need to include code snippets or logs, please put them in fenced code
blocks.  If they're super-long, please use the details tag like
<details><summary>super-long log</summary> lots of stuff </details>

Please delete these comment blocks before submitting the issue.

-->

<!--

IMPORTANT!!!

Please complete the next sections or the issue will be closed.
This questions are the first thing we need to know to understand the context.

-->

**Apache Airflow version**:


**Kubernetes version (if you are using kubernetes)** (use `kubectl version`):

**Environment**:

- **Cloud provider or hardware configuration**:
- **OS** (e.g. from /etc/os-release):
- **Kernel** (e.g. `uname -a`):
- **Install tools**:
- **Others**:
**What happened**:

<!-- (please include exact error messages if you can) -->

**What you expected to happen**:

<!-- What do you think went wrong? -->

**How to reproduce it**:
<!---

As minimally and precisely as possible. Keep in mind we do not have access to your cluster or dags.


If you are using kubernetes, please attempt to recreate the issue using minikube or kind.

## Install minikube/kind

- Minikube https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/
- Kind https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/


--->

**Anything else we need to know**:

<!--

How often does this problem occur? Once? Every time etc?

Any relevant logs to include? Put them here in side a detail tag:
<details><summary>x.log</summary> lots of stuff </details>

-->
