Support for Multiple Celery Worker Sets in the Helm Chart

Description
This PR enhances the Airflow Helm chart to support advanced Celery worker topologies, enabling more flexible resource allocation and precise autoscaling configurations.

Why is this needed?
1. Flexible Worker Topologies
As Airflow adoption grows, platform teams often need to route tasks exclusively to specialized worker sets (e.g., GPU-optimized, Memory-optimized) without maintaining a generic "default" worker.

Enhancement: The new ``workers.enableDefault`` flag allows users to configure a deployment consisting only of specialized worker sets defined in ``workers.celery.sets``. This provides greater flexibility for teams to design their worker architecture exactly as needed.
2. Multi-Queue Autoscaling Support
Complex workflows often require a single worker set to handle tasks from multiple specific queues (e.g., queue: "high-priority,vip").

Enhancement: This PR updates the KEDA ScaledObject generation to support comma-separated queue lists. By using the SQL IN (...) clause, we ensure that KEDA scales worker sets based on the precise aggregate workload of all their assigned queues.
3. Granular Configuration Overrides
Different worker sets may require different operational strategies within the same cluster.

Enhancement: This change improves the configuration merge logic, allowing individual worker sets to override global settings. For example, a user can now enable KEDA globally but explicitly disable it for a specific worker set that requires a static number of replicas.
Changes
New Feature: Added ``workers.enableDefault`` (default: true) to values.yaml.
Enhancement: Updated worker-kedaautoscaler.yaml to use SQL IN clause for queue filtering, supporting multi-queue configurations (e.g., queue: "a,b" -> AND queue IN ('a','b')).
Refactor: Standardized template rendering to ensure consistent behavior between the default ``workers`` and ``workers.celery.sets``.

See `Helm PR #58547 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/pull/58547>`_ for details.
