Helm chart now reconciles the Airflow metadata DB bidirectionally on ``helm upgrade``

The ``migrate-database-job`` is now run as a ``post-install,pre-upgrade`` hook
(was ``post-install,post-upgrade``) and its default args run a reconciliation
script that picks one of four actions depending on the relationship between
the chart's ``airflowVersion`` and the alembic head currently in the database:

* ``fresh install`` (no alembic row, or DB unreachable) — ``airflow db migrate``.
* ``target == current`` — no-op.
* ``target > current`` — ``airflow db migrate`` (existing behaviour).
* ``target < current`` — ``airflow db downgrade --to-version <target>``
  executed inside the still-running api-server pod (so reverse alembic
  scripts that ship only in the source-version image are available),
  followed by scaling every DB-touching workload of this release
  (``api-server``, ``scheduler``, ``triggerer``, ``dag-processor``,
  ``worker``) to ``0``. Helm then patches those workloads back to their
  configured ``replicas`` with the TARGET image as the upgrade proceeds,
  so the cluster comes back up cleanly on the target version without any
  OLD code running against the now-downgraded schema. A downgrade is
  therefore a brief outage rather than a zero-downtime rolling update —
  this is unavoidable when the schema goes backwards.

A ``Role`` + ``RoleBinding`` granting ``pods``, ``pods/exec``,
``deployments`` / ``statefulsets`` (``get``, ``list``) and
``deployments/scale`` / ``statefulsets/scale`` (``get``, ``patch``) to the
existing ``migrate-database-job`` ``ServiceAccount`` are now rendered when
``rbac.create`` is true (default). The downgrade branch is the only consumer.

A new ``migrateDatabaseJob.drainTimeoutSeconds`` value (default ``300``)
controls how long the downgrade branch waits for DB-touching pods to
terminate after scale-to-zero — raise this when workers may be in the
middle of long-running tasks.

Users who set ``migrateDatabaseJob.command`` or ``migrateDatabaseJob.args``
explicitly are unaffected — those values continue to take precedence. An
empty list (``args: []``) is now distinguished from an unset value
(``args: ~``) and disables the embedded reconciler.
