Removed deprecated metrics configuration.

   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_allow_list`` from ``metrics``. Please use ``metrics_allow_list`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_block_list`` from ``metrics``. Please use ``metrics_block_list`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_on`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_on`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_host`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_host`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_port`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_port`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_prefix`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_prefix`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_allow_list`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_allow_list`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``stat_name_handler`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``stat_name_handler`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_datadog_enabled`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_datadog_enabled`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_datadog_tags`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_datadog_tags`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_datadog_metrics_tags`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_datadog_metrics_tags`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_custom_client_path`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_custom_client_path`` from ``metrics`` instead.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [x] Config changes
  * [ ] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [ ] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [ ] Code interface changes

* Migration rules needed

  * ``airflow config lint``

    * [x] ``metrics.statsd_allow_list`` → ``metrics.metrics_allow_list``
    * [x] ``metrics.statsd_block_list`` → ``metrics.metrics_block_list``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_on`` → ``metrics.statsd_on``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_host`` → ``metrics.statsd_host``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_port`` → ``metrics.statsd_port``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_prefix`` → ``metrics.statsd_prefix``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_allow_list`` → ``metrics.statsd_allow_list``
    * [x] ``scheduler.stat_name_handler`` → ``metrics.stat_name_handler``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_datadog_enabled`` → ``metrics.statsd_datadog_enabled``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_datadog_tags`` → ``metrics.statsd_datadog_tags``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_datadog_metrics_tags`` → ``metrics.statsd_datadog_metrics_tags``
    * [x] ``scheduler.statsd_custom_client_path`` → ``metrics.statsd_custom_client_path``
