Add ``UvicornMonitor`` for zero-downtime API server worker recycling

The API server now supports rolling worker restarts via ``worker_refresh_interval`` configuration,
providing feature parity with Airflow 2's ``GunicornMonitor``. This addresses memory accumulation
in long-running API server workers by periodically recycling them while maintaining zero downtime.

**Why this matters:**

In Airflow 3, the API server switched from Gunicorn to uvicorn. Uvicorn's built-in
``limit_max_requests`` causes brief downtime because new workers spawn *after* old ones die.
With multiple workers, this creates a service gap where requests can fail.

**How it works:**

The ``UvicornMonitor`` uses uvicorn's signal-based worker management (SIGTTIN/SIGTTOU) to perform
rolling restarts: new workers are spawned and health-checked *before* old workers are killed,
ensuring continuous availability.

**New configuration options:**

.. code-block:: ini

    [api]
    # Seconds between rolling worker refreshes (0 = disabled, default)
    worker_refresh_interval = 1800

    # Number of workers to refresh at a time
    worker_refresh_batch_size = 1

**Example usage:**

To enable worker recycling every 30 minutes:

.. code-block:: bash

    export AIRFLOW__API__WORKER_REFRESH_INTERVAL=1800
    airflow api-server --workers 2

**Note on single-worker mode:**

When running with ``--workers 1``, uvicorn operates in single-process mode without a supervisor.
Rolling restarts still work but briefly scale up to 2 workers during the refresh cycle to enable
the multiprocess signal handling. For true zero-downtime with no capacity changes, use
``--workers 2`` or more.
