Airflow CLI commands are moving to talk to the API server

The Airflow CLI is being migrated to interact with Airflow through the API server using the
same typed client that ``airflowctl`` uses, instead of writing to the metadata database
directly.

This is an ongoing migration. As more CLI commands are moved to the API client they all
share the same behaviour described here, so this single news fragment is updated to list
them rather than adding a new news fragment for each migrated command.

Commands migrated so far: ``airflow dags trigger``, ``airflow dags delete``,
``airflow pools`` (list/get/set/delete/import/export), and ``airflow assets materialize``.

This is an internal change and **requires no action for typical users**: the command
syntax, arguments and output are unchanged, and a short-lived authentication token is
minted in memory for each invocation (no credentials are stored). With the default
``SimpleAuthManager`` (and with the FAB or Keycloak auth managers) the token is generated
automatically on the local host.

**Behaviour changes:**

- These commands now require a reachable API server (resolved from ``[api] base_url`` or
  ``[api] host``/``[api] port``, defaulting to ``http://localhost:8080``).
- The triggering user recorded for ``dags trigger`` / ``assets materialize`` is the CLI's
  authenticated API user, not the local OS user.
- For auth managers whose tokens cannot be minted locally, or when targeting a remote API
  server, set the ``AIRFLOW_CLI_TOKEN`` environment variable to a valid API token.

**Code interface changes:**

- ``airflow.api.client`` (``get_current_api_client`` and the local client) has been
  removed. Use ``airflow.cli.api_client.get_cli_api_client`` instead.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [ ] Config changes
  * [ ] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [x] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [x] Code interface changes
