Error codes with doc pages gen and static checks

This adds a way for devs to use error codes (AERR) while raising
exceptions. Error codes are derived from the exception class names when
AirflowErrorCodeMixin is added to respective exception class.  Error
metadata i.e. user-facing error message, error description,
documentation link and first steps are specified by dev inside the
exception class, which are then available to users via docs - a new doc
page is generated for each error code when breeze builds the docs.

This also adds a static check that validates exception raises for error
code mixin usage and error meta with supporting tests.  Additionally it
adds error mixin to few exception classes, as examples to get started.

**Step by step flow**

- dev adds AirflowErrorCodeMixin to respective exception class that
  they'd want to raise with an error_code.
- dev then specifies user_facing_error_message, first_steps,
  error_description, documentation_link for that exception class.
- AirflowErrorCodeMixin automatically derives an error_code for the
  exception class.
- dev runs breeze build-docs that generates a new docs page
  AERR-NOT-FOUND.rst
- breeze static check takes care of validating
  user_facing_error_message, first_steps, error_description,
documentation_link are specified correctly within the exception class.

On airflow users' side, they now see airflow error code as part of the
stack trace, which they can use for communicating problems instead of
pasting verbose stack traces. Error codes also improve LLM-based
discovery of airflow errors as codes are much more
deterministic/well-defined than plain stack traces.


**Error code as part of exception string**

Error code will be part exceptions' string output in the logs in the
following format: ``[AERR-TIMETABLE-INVALID] schedule interval must be
positive...``
