Provider example DAGs are exposed as dedicated bundles

Example DAGs that ship with provider distributions are now discovered via
``ProvidersManager`` and registered as their own DAG bundles, one per
provider that ships an ``example_dags/`` folder. Bundle names follow the
shape ``apache-airflow-providers-<distribution>-example-dags`` (for
canonical Apache providers) or ``<distribution-name>-example-dags`` (for
third-party providers). The ``[core] load_examples`` configuration option
remains the single switch that controls whether any example bundles are
registered.

**What changed:**

- Example DAGs that previously came in under the implicit ``dags-folder``
  bundle are now persisted in ``DagBundleModel`` rows and emitted in REST
  API responses (``GET /api/v2/dags/{dag_id}/dag-versions`` and the
  ``bundle_name`` field on task-instance responses) under the new
  per-provider bundle names.
- Nested providers such as ``apache-airflow-providers-common-sql`` are
  discovered correctly (previously they were missed because discovery
  walked ``airflow.providers.__path__`` directly).

**Behaviour changes:**

- Clients filtering or tracking bundles by ``"dags-folder"`` for
  previously-shipped example DAGs (e.g. ``example_python_operator``) need
  to update to the new per-provider bundle names. The DAG identifiers
  themselves are unchanged.

**Removals:**

- The ``include_examples`` parameter has been removed from
  ``DagBag.__init__``, ``DagBag.collect_dags``, ``BundleDagBag.__init__``,
  and ``tests_common.test_utils.db.parse_and_sync_to_db``. Example DAG
  loading is now controlled exclusively by the ``[core] load_examples``
  configuration option, which gates whether the per-provider example
  bundles are registered. Callers that previously passed
  ``include_examples=True`` should set
  ``conf_vars({("core", "load_examples"): "true"})`` (or equivalent
  configuration). Callers that previously passed
  ``include_examples=False`` can drop the argument: it matches the new
  default behaviour where ``DagBag`` only walks the configured
  ``dag_folder`` and example DAGs come in via dedicated bundles.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [x] Config changes
  * [x] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [x] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [x] Code interface changes

* Migration rules needed

  * Update clients that filter REST API responses by ``bundle_name`` to
    match the new per-provider bundle names for example DAGs.
  * Replace ``include_examples=True`` calls to ``DagBag`` /
    ``parse_and_sync_to_db`` with
    ``conf_vars({("core", "load_examples"): "true"})`` (or equivalent
    configuration). The argument has been removed.
  * Drop ``include_examples=False`` arguments from ``DagBag`` /
    ``parse_and_sync_to_db`` calls; the default behaviour is unchanged.
