Decouple remote logging resolution from ``airflow.logging_config``

Remote task log handler resolution is now owned by the shared
``airflow_shared.logging.factory`` module and applies a single, well-defined
precedence rule. ``airflow.logging_config.load_logging_config`` is deprecated:
loading the ``[logging] logging_config_class`` dict and resolving the remote
handler are now two independent steps.

**Resolution order (``resolve_remote_task_log``):**

1. **User-defined ``[logging] logging_config_class``** — if the user has set
   ``logging_config_class`` to a custom module path, and that module exports a
   ``REMOTE_TASK_LOG`` (or ``DEFAULT_REMOTE_CONN_ID``) attribute, those values
   win. Existing custom logging configs keep working unchanged.
2. **ProvidersManager scheme dispatch** — the scheme of ``[logging]
   remote_base_log_folder`` (e.g. ``s3``, ``gs``, ``wasb``) is looked up in the
   provider yaml ``remote-logging:`` registry. The matching ``RemoteLogIO``
   class is imported and instantiated via its ``from_config()`` classmethod.
   The connection id comes from ``[logging] remote_log_conn_id`` (set
   explicitly by the user; providers needing a backend default can read it
   inside ``from_config``).
3. **Legacy attr-path fallback** — if neither of the above produced a handler,
   the resolver imports the default logging module
   (``airflow.config_templates.airflow_local_settings``) and reads its
   ``REMOTE_TASK_LOG`` / ``DEFAULT_REMOTE_CONN_ID`` attributes. This is the
   per-scheme ``if/elif`` chain in ``airflow_local_settings.py`` and is
   transitional — it will be removed once every in-tree provider exposes
   ``from_config`` in Airflow 4.0.

**``RemoteLogIO.from_config`` contract:**

Provider remote-log handler classes opting into provider dispatch must expose
a ``from_config`` classmethod. The shape is::

    class MyRemoteLogIO(LoggingMixin):
        @classmethod
        def from_config(cls) -> "MyRemoteLogIO":
            from airflow.providers.common.compat.sdk import conf

            return cls(
                base_log_folder=conf.get("logging", "base_log_folder"),
                remote_base=conf.get("logging", "remote_base_log_folder"),
                delete_local_copy=conf.getboolean("logging", "delete_local_logs"),
                # backend-specific keys live in the provider's own config section
                ...,
            )

Key properties:

- Takes no arguments — the shared factory calls ``cls.from_config()`` with no
  inputs. Providers read ``airflow.providers.common.compat.sdk.conf`` themselves and pick
  the keys they care about.
- Returns a fully instantiated ``RemoteLogIO`` (or ``RemoteLogStreamIO``).
- Failures inside ``from_config`` are logged and treated as "no remote
  handler" (the factory returns ``None`` and the legacy fallback runs); under
  ``PYTEST_CURRENT_TEST`` the exception is re-raised so tests fail loudly.
- Providers that don't yet implement ``from_config`` continue to work via the
  legacy ``airflow_local_settings.py`` chain (step 3).

**``airflow.logging_config`` API changes:**

- ``_get_logging_config()`` — new private helper that imports and validates
  the ``[logging] logging_config_class`` dict only. Does not touch remote
  logging state.
- ``_load_logging_config()`` — new private helper that calls
  ``resolve_remote_task_log`` and caches the result on
  ``_ActiveLoggingConfig``. Used lazily by ``get_remote_task_log`` and
  ``get_default_remote_conn_id``.
- ``load_logging_config()`` — deprecated. Emits ``DeprecationWarning`` and
  delegates to both helpers; still returns ``(logging_config_dict,
  logging_class_path)`` so existing callers keep working.

**Behaviour changes:**

- ``configure_logging`` no longer eagerly resolves the remote handler.
  Resolution is now lazy and happens on the first call to
  ``get_remote_task_log()`` / ``get_default_remote_conn_id()``.
- Providers that registered a ``remote-logging:`` block but did not implement
  ``from_config`` will be skipped with a warning; the legacy fallback path
  takes over.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [ ] Config changes
  * [ ] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [x] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [x] Code interface changes

* Migration rules needed

  * Replace direct calls to ``airflow.logging_config.load_logging_config()``
    with ``_get_logging_config()`` (for the logging dict) and/or
    ``_load_logging_config()`` (to prime the remote-handler cache).
  * Provider remote-log handler classes should implement a no-argument
    ``from_config`` classmethod that reads ``airflow.providers.common.compat.sdk.conf``
    and returns a configured instance. Until they do, resolution falls
    through to the legacy ``airflow_local_settings.py`` chain.
