Fix ``jwt_audience`` for the public API being read from two different config sections

Earlier 3.x releases contained a bug in ``BaseAuthManager``: the JWT signer read
``jwt_audience`` from the ``[api]`` section while the validator read it from the documented
``[api_auth]`` section. Only ``[api_auth] jwt_audience`` is declared in ``config.yml``;
``[api] jwt_audience`` was never part of the schema. Default deployments were unaffected
because both sides fell back to ``apache-airflow``, but a deployment that set a custom
audience under the documented ``[api_auth]`` location had its tokens signed with the
default value and silently rejected by the validator. Some operators worked around the
bug by setting the audience under the undocumented ``[api]`` section instead, which made
the signer emit the configured value but left the validator on the default.

Both the signer and validator now read ``jwt_audience`` from ``[api_auth]``.

**What you should do:**

- If you set ``[api_auth] jwt_audience`` (env ``AIRFLOW__API_AUTH__JWT_AUDIENCE``):
  nothing — this is the documented location and continues to work.
- If you worked around the original bug by setting ``[api] jwt_audience`` (env
  ``AIRFLOW__API__JWT_AUDIENCE``): move the value to ``[api_auth] jwt_audience``
  (env ``AIRFLOW__API_AUTH__JWT_AUDIENCE``). The value under ``[api]`` is still
  honoured for backwards compatibility and emits a ``DeprecationWarning``; support
  for it will be removed in a future release.
- If you set both: the documented ``[api_auth]`` value wins; remove the ``[api]``
  one to silence the deprecation warning.

**Behaviour changes:**

- Deployments that set ``[api_auth] jwt_audience`` will now also have their tokens
  signed with that value (previously only validated against it). If signer and
  validator were on different audiences because of this bug, expect tokens
  generated after upgrade to be accepted again.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [x] Config changes
  * [ ] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [x] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [ ] Code interface changes
