DAG processor now reads and writes metadata exclusively through the API server

The standalone DAG processor (``airflow dag-processor``) no longer connects to the metadata
database directly. It persists parse results and reads all metadata through the API server,
mirroring how workers and triggerers already operate.

**What changed:**

- The DAG processor process opens no metadata-database connection. Persistence (serialized
  DAGs, import errors, warnings), stale-DAG and orphaned-import-error reconciliation, bundle
  synchronization and state, priority-parse-request and callback claiming, and the processor's
  own ``Job`` liveness record all go through the API server.
- Parse-time ``Connection``/``Variable``/``XCom`` reads from DAG files resolve through the
  Execution API rather than an in-process app backed by the local database.

**Behaviour changes:**

- An API server must be reachable for the DAG processor to run. A deployment that previously
  ran ``airflow dag-processor`` with only a database connection (no API server) must now also
  run the API server.
- The API server fronting the DAG processor must run the ``dag-processing`` app. Start it with
  ``airflow api-server --apps all`` or include ``dag-processing`` explicitly; a subset such as
  ``--apps core,execution`` omits it and the DAG processor cannot run.
- The DAG processor authenticates to the API server with a bearer token the deployment
  provisions; it does not mint its own. Because it parses user code, it is not given the signing
  key. A trusted component mints the token and writes it to the file referenced by
  ``[dag_processor] api_token_path``; the processor only reads that file, re-reading it as the
  token is rotated, so a refreshed token is picked up without a restart.
- ``airflow provision-dag-processor-token`` mints the token and writes it to that file. The
  bundled Helm chart (an init container) and docker-compose example run it for you; in a custom
  deployment, run it from a trusted context that holds the signing key before the processor starts,
  and re-run it before ``[dag_processor] jwt_expiration_time`` elapses to rotate the token.

**Configuration:**

- ``[core] dag_processing_api_server_url`` selects the DAG Processing API endpoint. It defaults
  to the ``/dag-processing`` mount on the configured API server (``{BASE_URL}/dag-processing``),
  so deployments that already run the API server need no extra configuration. Set it to point
  the DAG processor at a different host.
- ``[dag_processor] api_token_path`` is the path to a file holding the bearer token the DAG
  processor presents to the API server (for both the DAG Processing and Execution APIs).
- ``[dag_processor] jwt_expiration_time`` is the lifetime of the minted token (default 24h); the
  provisioning step should re-mint before it elapses.

**Migration:**

- Ensure the API server is running and reachable from the DAG processor. If the DAG processor
  runs on a host without the default API server, set ``[core] dag_processing_api_server_url``
  (and ``[core] execution_api_server_url`` for parse-time metadata reads) to its address.
- Provision the DAG processor's token (``airflow provision-dag-processor-token``) from a trusted
  context that holds the signing key, and point the processor at it with
  ``[dag_processor] api_token_path``. The Helm chart and docker-compose example do this by default.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [x] Config changes
  * [x] CLI changes
  * [x] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [x] Code interface changes
  * [ ] API changes
