Drop the ``LogTemplate`` DB model

Airflow tracked historical values of ``[logging] log_filename_template`` and
``[elasticsearch] log_id_template`` in a ``log_template`` table so a ``DagRun``'s
logs stayed retrievable after either config value changed. This model has been
removed: the Elasticsearch/OpenSearch task handlers reached into the metadata
database directly to read it, which conflicts with the Airflow 3 execution
model where workers/handlers should not query the metadata DB directly, and it
otherwise only existed to duplicate two strings already available from config.

**What changed:**

- The ``LogTemplate`` model, the ``log_template`` table, and ``DagRun.log_template_id``
  are gone.
- ``DagRun.get_log_template()`` has been removed.
- Log filename and log ID templates are now read directly from
  ``[logging] log_filename_template`` and ``[elasticsearch] log_id_template`` at
  render time, instead of being pinned to the value in effect when the ``DagRun``
  was created.

**Behaviour changes:**

- Changing ``log_filename_template`` or ``log_id_template`` now applies
  immediately and retroactively to *all* ``DagRun``s, including ones created
  before the change. There is no more per-run historical pinning: if you change
  either setting, logs written under the previous template are no longer
  reachable through the new one.

**Migration:**

- A database migration drops the ``log_template`` table and the
  ``dag_run.log_template_id`` column. No user action is required.
- Any custom log handler or plugin calling ``DagRun.get_log_template()`` or
  importing ``airflow.models.tasklog.LogTemplate`` must be updated to read
  ``[logging] log_filename_template`` / ``[elasticsearch] log_id_template``
  from config instead.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [x] Config changes
  * [ ] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [x] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [x] Code interface changes

* Migration rules needed

  * Remove any usage of ``DagRun.get_log_template()`` or
    ``airflow.models.tasklog.LogTemplate`` in custom log handlers/plugins;
    read ``[logging] log_filename_template`` / ``[elasticsearch] log_id_template``
    from config instead.
