docs/apache-airflow-providers-apprise/commits.rst, before:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

 .. NOTE! THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AND WILL BE
    OVERWRITTEN WHEN PREPARING PACKAGES.

 .. IF YOU WANT TO MODIFY THIS FILE, YOU SHOULD MODIFY THE TEMPLATE
    `PROVIDER_COMMITS_TEMPLATE.rst.jinja2` IN the `dev/breeze/src/airflow_breeze/templates` DIRECTORY

 .. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-apprise
------------------------------------------------------

`Apprise <https://github.com/caronc/apprise>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``apprise``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.3.0
.....

Latest change: 2024-01-26

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================================================
`0b680c9492 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b680c94922e3f7ca1f3ada8328e315bbae37dc8>`_  2024-01-26   ``Revert "Provide the logger_name param in providers hooks in order to override the logger name (#36675)" (#37015)``
`2b4da0101f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2b4da0101f0314989d148c3c8a02c87e87048974>`_  2024-01-22   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers January 2024 (#36945)``
`6bd450da1e <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6bd450da1eb6cacc2ccfd4544d520ae059b75c3b>`_  2024-01-10   ``Provide the logger_name param in providers hooks in order to override the logger name (#36675)``
`19ebcac239 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/19ebcac2395ef9a6b6ded3a2faa29dc960c1e635>`_  2024-01-07   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers January 2024 (#36640)``
`6937ae7647 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6937ae76476b3bc869ef912d000bcc94ad642db1>`_  2023-12-30   ``Speed up autocompletion of Breeze by simplifying provider state (#36499)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================================================

1.2.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-23

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
`b15d5578da <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b15d5578dac73c4c6a3ca94d90ab0dc9e9e74c9c>`_  2023-12-23   ``Re-apply updated version numbers to 2nd wave of providers in December (#36380)``
`f5883d6e7b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5883d6e7be83f1ab9468e67164b7ac381fdb49f>`_  2023-12-23   ``Prepare 2nd wave of providers in December (#36373)``
`cd476acd8f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cd476acd8f1684f613c20dddaa9e988bcfb3ac1c>`_  2023-12-11   ``Follow BaseHook connection fields method signature in child classes (#36086)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================

1.2.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`999b70178a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/999b70178a1f5d891fd2c88af4831a4ba4c2cbc9>`_  2023-12-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers December 2023 (#36112)``
`d0918d77ee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0918d77ee05ab08c83af6956e38584a48574590>`_  2023-12-07   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.6.0 (#36017)``
`0b23d5601c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b23d5601c6f833392b0ea816e651dcb13a14685>`_  2023-11-24   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers November 2023 (#35836)``
`99534e47f3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99534e47f330ce0efb96402629dda5b2a4f16e8f>`_  2023-11-19   ``Use reproducible builds for provider packages (#35693)``
`99df205f42 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99df205f42a754aa67f80b5983e1d228ff23267f>`_  2023-11-16   ``Fix and reapply templates for provider documentation (#35686)``
`1b059c57d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1b059c57d6d57d198463e5388138bee8a08591b1>`_  2023-11-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers November 2023 (#35537)``
`d1c58d86de <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d1c58d86de1267d9268a1efe0a0c102633c051a1>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 - FIX (#35233)``
`3592ff4046 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3592ff40465032fa041600be740ee6bc25e7c242>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 (#35187)``
`dd7ba3cae1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/dd7ba3cae139cb10d71c5ebc25fc496c67ee784e>`_  2023-10-19   ``Pre-upgrade 'ruff==0.0.292' changes in providers (#35053)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-10-13

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
`e9987d5059 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e9987d50598f70d84cbb2a5d964e21020e81c080>`_  2023-10-13   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers in October 2023 (#34916)``
`0c8e30e43b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0c8e30e43b70e9d033e1686b327eb00aab82479c>`_  2023-10-05   ``Bump min airflow version of providers (#34728)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================

1.0.2
.....

Latest change: 2023-09-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
`21990ed894 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21990ed8943ee4dc6e060ee2f11648490c714a3b>`_  2023-09-08   ``Prepare docs for 09 2023 - 1st wave of Providers (#34201)``
`6c943ca5d2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6c943ca5d2a3fc38325cbd76e229705c697971ec>`_  2023-08-28   ``Resolve D301 in Apprise Provider (#33852)``
`9d8c77e447 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9d8c77e447f5515b9a6aa85fa72511a86a128c28>`_  2023-08-27   ``Improve modules import in Airflow providers by some of them into a type-checking block (#33754)``
`c077d19060 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c077d190609f931387c1fcd7b8cc34f12e2372b9>`_  2023-08-26   ``Prepare docs for Aug 2023 3rd wave of Providers (#33730)``
`c645d8e40c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c645d8e40c167ea1f6c332cdc3ea0ca5a9363205>`_  2023-08-12   ``D401 Support - Providers: Airbyte to Atlassian (Inclusive) (#33354)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================

1.0.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-07-29

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===========================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===========================================================================
`d06b7af69a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d06b7af69a65c50321ba2a9904551f3b8affc7f1>`_  2023-07-29   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 3rd wave of Providers (#32875)``
`9194144dab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9194144dab01d1898877215379e1c019fe6f10cd>`_  2023-07-27   ``Replace Ruff setting known-third-party with namespace-packages (#32873)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===========================================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-07-05

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================
`3878fe6fab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3878fe6fab3ccc1461932b456c48996f2763139f>`_  2023-07-05   ``Remove spurious headers for provider changelogs (#32373)``
`cb4927a018 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cb4927a01887e2413c45d8d9cb63e74aa994ee74>`_  2023-07-05   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (#32298)``
`8c37b74a20 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8c37b74a208a808d905c1b86d081d69d7a1aa900>`_  2023-06-28   ``D205 Support - Providers: Apache to Common (inclusive) (#32226)``
`09d4718d3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/09d4718d3a46aecf3355d14d3d23022002f4a818>`_  2023-06-27   ``Improve provider documentation and README structure (#32125)``
`f4c4b77486 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f4c4b7748655cd11d2c297de38563b2e6b840221>`_  2023-06-21   ``Add Apprise Provider   (#31533)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================

Commit message:

Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers February 2024

docs/apache-airflow-providers-apprise/commits.rst, after:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

 .. NOTE! THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AND WILL BE
    OVERWRITTEN WHEN PREPARING PACKAGES.

 .. IF YOU WANT TO MODIFY THIS FILE, YOU SHOULD MODIFY THE TEMPLATE
    `PROVIDER_COMMITS_TEMPLATE.rst.jinja2` IN the `dev/breeze/src/airflow_breeze/templates` DIRECTORY

 .. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-apprise
------------------------------------------------------

`Apprise <https://github.com/caronc/apprise>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``apprise``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.2.2
.....

Latest change: 2024-02-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================================================
`250f29fc8a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/250f29fc8a600678ffa9cb8382f32cea3b0d5796>`_  2024-02-08   ``Simplified configuration parsing in Apprise Connection (#37202)``
`cead3da4a6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cead3da4a6f483fa626b81efd27a24dcb5a36ab0>`_  2024-01-26   ``Add docs for RC2 wave of providers for 2nd round of Jan 2024 (#37019)``
`0b680c9492 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b680c94922e3f7ca1f3ada8328e315bbae37dc8>`_  2024-01-26   ``Revert "Provide the logger_name param in providers hooks in order to override the logger name (#36675)" (#37015)``
`2b4da0101f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2b4da0101f0314989d148c3c8a02c87e87048974>`_  2024-01-22   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers January 2024 (#36945)``
`6bd450da1e <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6bd450da1eb6cacc2ccfd4544d520ae059b75c3b>`_  2024-01-10   ``Provide the logger_name param in providers hooks in order to override the logger name (#36675)``
`19ebcac239 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/19ebcac2395ef9a6b6ded3a2faa29dc960c1e635>`_  2024-01-07   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers January 2024 (#36640)``
`6937ae7647 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6937ae76476b3bc869ef912d000bcc94ad642db1>`_  2023-12-30   ``Speed up autocompletion of Breeze by simplifying provider state (#36499)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================================================

1.2.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-23

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
`b15d5578da <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b15d5578dac73c4c6a3ca94d90ab0dc9e9e74c9c>`_  2023-12-23   ``Re-apply updated version numbers to 2nd wave of providers in December (#36380)``
`f5883d6e7b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5883d6e7be83f1ab9468e67164b7ac381fdb49f>`_  2023-12-23   ``Prepare 2nd wave of providers in December (#36373)``
`cd476acd8f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cd476acd8f1684f613c20dddaa9e988bcfb3ac1c>`_  2023-12-11   ``Follow BaseHook connection fields method signature in child classes (#36086)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================

1.2.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`999b70178a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/999b70178a1f5d891fd2c88af4831a4ba4c2cbc9>`_  2023-12-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers December 2023 (#36112)``
`d0918d77ee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0918d77ee05ab08c83af6956e38584a48574590>`_  2023-12-07   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.6.0 (#36017)``
`0b23d5601c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b23d5601c6f833392b0ea816e651dcb13a14685>`_  2023-11-24   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers November 2023 (#35836)``
`99534e47f3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99534e47f330ce0efb96402629dda5b2a4f16e8f>`_  2023-11-19   ``Use reproducible builds for provider packages (#35693)``
`99df205f42 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99df205f42a754aa67f80b5983e1d228ff23267f>`_  2023-11-16   ``Fix and reapply templates for provider documentation (#35686)``
`1b059c57d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1b059c57d6d57d198463e5388138bee8a08591b1>`_  2023-11-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers November 2023 (#35537)``
`d1c58d86de <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d1c58d86de1267d9268a1efe0a0c102633c051a1>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 - FIX (#35233)``
`3592ff4046 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3592ff40465032fa041600be740ee6bc25e7c242>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 (#35187)``
`dd7ba3cae1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/dd7ba3cae139cb10d71c5ebc25fc496c67ee784e>`_  2023-10-19   ``Pre-upgrade 'ruff==0.0.292' changes in providers (#35053)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-10-13

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================
`e9987d5059 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e9987d50598f70d84cbb2a5d964e21020e81c080>`_  2023-10-13   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers in October 2023 (#34916)``
`0c8e30e43b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0c8e30e43b70e9d033e1686b327eb00aab82479c>`_  2023-10-05   ``Bump min airflow version of providers (#34728)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===============================================================

1.0.2
.....

Latest change: 2023-09-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================
`21990ed894 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21990ed8943ee4dc6e060ee2f11648490c714a3b>`_  2023-09-08   ``Prepare docs for 09 2023 - 1st wave of Providers (#34201)``
`6c943ca5d2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6c943ca5d2a3fc38325cbd76e229705c697971ec>`_  2023-08-28   ``Resolve D301 in Apprise Provider (#33852)``
`9d8c77e447 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9d8c77e447f5515b9a6aa85fa72511a86a128c28>`_  2023-08-27   ``Improve modules import in Airflow providers by some of them into a type-checking block (#33754)``
`c077d19060 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c077d190609f931387c1fcd7b8cc34f12e2372b9>`_  2023-08-26   ``Prepare docs for Aug 2023 3rd wave of Providers (#33730)``
`c645d8e40c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c645d8e40c167ea1f6c332cdc3ea0ca5a9363205>`_  2023-08-12   ``D401 Support - Providers: Airbyte to Atlassian (Inclusive) (#33354)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================================================

1.0.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-07-29

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===========================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===========================================================================
`d06b7af69a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d06b7af69a65c50321ba2a9904551f3b8affc7f1>`_  2023-07-29   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 3rd wave of Providers (#32875)``
`9194144dab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/9194144dab01d1898877215379e1c019fe6f10cd>`_  2023-07-27   ``Replace Ruff setting known-third-party with namespace-packages (#32873)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===========================================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-07-05

=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================
`3878fe6fab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3878fe6fab3ccc1461932b456c48996f2763139f>`_  2023-07-05   ``Remove spurious headers for provider changelogs (#32373)``
`cb4927a018 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cb4927a01887e2413c45d8d9cb63e74aa994ee74>`_  2023-07-05   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (#32298)``
`8c37b74a20 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8c37b74a208a808d905c1b86d081d69d7a1aa900>`_  2023-06-28   ``D205 Support - Providers: Apache to Common (inclusive) (#32226)``
`09d4718d3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/09d4718d3a46aecf3355d14d3d23022002f4a818>`_  2023-06-27   ``Improve provider documentation and README structure (#32125)``
`f4c4b77486 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f4c4b7748655cd11d2c297de38563b2e6b840221>`_  2023-06-21   ``Add Apprise Provider   (#31533)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ===================================================================
