docs/apache-airflow-providers-apprise/connections.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. _howto/connection:apprise:

Apprise Connection
=======================

The `Apprise <https://github.com/caronc/apprise>`__ connection type enables connection to multiple services to send notifications.
The complete list of services supported can be found on the `Apprise Wiki <https://github.com/caronc/apprise/wiki#notification-services>`_.

Default Connection IDs
----------------------

Apprise hooks point to ``apprise_default`` by default.

Configuring the Connection
--------------------------

Config (required)
    The service(s) to send notifications can be specified here.
    The format to specify a single service or multiple services is as follows:

    *Single service*

    .. code-block:: json

      {
        "path": "URI for the service",
        "tag": "tag name"
      }


    *Multiple services*

    .. code-block:: json

      [
        {
          "path": "URI for the service 1",
          "tag": "tag name"
        },
        {
          "path": "URI for the service 2",
          "tag": "tag name"
        },
      ]

    .. seealso::
      - `Apprise URL Basics <https://github.com/caronc/apprise/wiki/URLBasics#apprise-url-basics>`_
      - `Tagging <https://github.com/caronc/apprise/wiki/Development_API#tagging>`_

Commit message:

Simplified configuration parsing in Apprise Connection (#37202)
* Fixed #37170

* Fixed #37170

* keep both behavior for backwards compatibility

* added test

* Update test_apprise.py

* Update connections.rst

docs/apache-airflow-providers-apprise/connections.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. _howto/connection:apprise:

Apprise Connection
=======================

The `Apprise <https://github.com/caronc/apprise>`__ connection type enables connection to multiple services to send notifications.
The complete list of services supported can be found on the `Apprise Wiki <https://github.com/caronc/apprise/wiki#notification-services>`_.

Default Connection IDs
----------------------

Apprise hooks point to ``apprise_default`` by default.

Configuring the Connection
--------------------------

Config (required)
    The service(s) to send notifications can be specified here.
    The format to specify a single service or multiple services is as follows:

    *Single service*

    .. code-block:: json

      {
        "path": "URI for the service",
        "tag": "tag name"
      }


    *Multiple services*

    .. code-block:: json

      [
        {
          "path": "URI for the service 1",
          "tag": "tag name"
        },
        {
          "path": "URI for the service 2",
          "tag": "tag name"
        },
      ]


Using Environment Variable
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

The configuration can be provided in an environment variable.

.. code-block:: bash

    AIRFLOW_CONN_APPRISE_DEFAULT='{"extra": {"config": {"path": "https://hooks.slack.com/services/T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX", "tags": "alert"}}}'


.. seealso::
  - `Apprise URL Basics <https://github.com/caronc/apprise/wiki/URLBasics#apprise-url-basics>`_
  - `Tagging <https://github.com/caronc/apprise/wiki/Development_API#tagging>`_
