docs/apache-airflow/administration-and-deployment/listeners.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Listeners
=========

You can write listeners to enable Airflow to notify you when events happen.
`Pluggy <https://pluggy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`__ powers these listeners.

Airflow supports notifications for the following events:

Lifecycle Events
----------------

- ``on_starting``
- ``before_stopping``

Lifecycle events allow you to react to start and stop events for an Airflow ``Job``, like  ``SchedulerJob`` or ``BackfillJob``.

DagRun State Change Events
--------------------------

- ``on_dag_run_running``
- ``on_dag_run_success``
- ``on_dag_run_failed``

DagRun state change events occur when a ``DagRun`` changes state.

TaskInstance State Change Events
--------------------------------

- ``on_task_instance_running``
- ``on_task_instance_success``
- ``on_task_instance_failed``

TaskInstance state change events occur when a ``TaskInstance`` changes state.
You can use these events to react to ``LocalTaskJob`` state changes.


Usage
-----

To create a listener:

- import ``airflow.listeners.hookimpl``
- implement the ``hookimpls`` for events that you'd like to generate notifications

Airflow defines the specification as `hookspec <https://github.com/apache/airflow/tree/main/airflow/listeners/spec>`__. Your implementation must accept the same named parameters as defined in hookspec. If you don't use the same parameters as hookspec, Pluggy throws an error when you try to use your plugin. But you don't need to implement every method. Many listeners only implement one method, or a subset of methods.

To include the listener in your Airflow installation, include it as a part of an :doc:`Airflow Plugin </authoring-and-scheduling/plugins>`

Listener API is meant to be called across all DAGs and all operators. You can't listen to events generated by specific DAGs. For that behavior, try methods like ``on_success_callback`` and ``pre_execute``. These provide callbacks for particular DAG authors or operator creators. The logs and ``print()`` calls will be handled as part of the listeners.


|experimental|

Commit message:

Add Listener hooks for Datasets (#34418)
This PR creates listener hooks for the following Dataset events
* on_dataset_created
* on_dataset_changed

closes: #34327

docs/apache-airflow/administration-and-deployment/listeners.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Listeners
=========

You can write listeners to enable Airflow to notify you when events happen.
`Pluggy <https://pluggy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`__ powers these listeners.

Airflow supports notifications for the following events:

Lifecycle Events
----------------

- ``on_starting``
- ``before_stopping``

Lifecycle events allow you to react to start and stop events for an Airflow ``Job``, like  ``SchedulerJob`` or ``BackfillJob``.

DagRun State Change Events
--------------------------

- ``on_dag_run_running``
- ``on_dag_run_success``
- ``on_dag_run_failed``

DagRun state change events occur when a ``DagRun`` changes state.

TaskInstance State Change Events
--------------------------------

- ``on_task_instance_running``
- ``on_task_instance_success``
- ``on_task_instance_failed``

TaskInstance state change events occur when a ``TaskInstance`` changes state.
You can use these events to react to ``LocalTaskJob`` state changes.

Dataset Events
--------------

- ``on_dataset_created``
- ``on_dataset_changed``

Dataset events occur when Dataset management operations are run.

Usage
-----

To create a listener:

- import ``airflow.listeners.hookimpl``
- implement the ``hookimpls`` for events that you'd like to generate notifications

Airflow defines the specification as `hookspec <https://github.com/apache/airflow/tree/main/airflow/listeners/spec>`__. Your implementation must accept the same named parameters as defined in hookspec. If you don't use the same parameters as hookspec, Pluggy throws an error when you try to use your plugin. But you don't need to implement every method. Many listeners only implement one method, or a subset of methods.

To include the listener in your Airflow installation, include it as a part of an :doc:`Airflow Plugin </authoring-and-scheduling/plugins>`

Listener API is meant to be called across all DAGs and all operators. You can't listen to events generated by specific DAGs. For that behavior, try methods like ``on_success_callback`` and ``pre_execute``. These provide callbacks for particular DAG authors or operator creators. The logs and ``print()`` calls will be handled as part of the listeners.


|experimental|
