docs/apache-airflow/administration-and-deployment/priority-weight.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. _concepts:priority-weight:

Priority Weights
================

``priority_weight`` defines priorities in the executor queue. The default ``priority_weight`` is ``1``, and can be
bumped to any integer. Moreover, each task has a true ``priority_weight`` that is calculated based on its
``weight_rule`` which defines weighting method used for the effective total priority weight of the task.

By default, Airflow's weighting method is ``downstream``. You can find other weighting methods in
:class:`airflow.utils.WeightRule`.

There are three weighting methods.

- downstream

  The effective weight of the task is the aggregate sum of all
  downstream descendants. As a result, upstream tasks will have
  higher weight and will be scheduled more aggressively when
  using positive weight values. This is useful when you have
  multiple DAG run instances and desire to have all upstream
  tasks to complete for all runs before each DAG can continue
  processing downstream tasks.

- upstream

  The effective weight is the aggregate sum of all upstream ancestors.
  This is the opposite where downstream tasks have higher weight
  and will be scheduled more aggressively when using positive weight
  values. This is useful when you have multiple DAG run instances
  and prefer to have each DAG complete before starting upstream
  tasks of other DAG runs.

- absolute

  The effective weight is the exact ``priority_weight`` specified
  without additional weighting. You may want to do this when you
  know exactly what priority weight each task should have.
  Additionally, when set to ``absolute``, there is bonus effect of
  significantly speeding up the task creation process as for very
  large DAGs


The ``priority_weight`` parameter can be used in conjunction with :ref:`concepts:pool`.

Commit message:

Add a public interface for custom weight_rule implementation (#35210)
* Add a public interface for custom weight_rule implementation

* Remove _weight_strategy attribute

* Move priority weight calculation to TI to support advanced strategies

* Fix loading the var from mapped operators and simplify loading it from task

* Update default value and deprecated the other one

* Update task endpoint API spec

* fix tests

* Update docs and add dag example

* Fix serialization test

* revert change in spark provider

* Update unit tests

docs/apache-airflow/administration-and-deployment/priority-weight.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. _concepts:priority-weight:

Priority Weights
================

``priority_weight`` defines priorities in the executor queue. The default ``priority_weight`` is ``1``, and can be
bumped to any integer. Moreover, each task has a true ``priority_weight`` that is calculated based on its
``priority_weight_strategy`` which defines weighting method used for the effective total priority weight of the task.

Airflow has three weighting strategies:

- downstream

  The effective weight of the task is the aggregate sum of all
  downstream descendants. As a result, upstream tasks will have
  higher weight and will be scheduled more aggressively when
  using positive weight values. This is useful when you have
  multiple DAG run instances and desire to have all upstream
  tasks to complete for all runs before each DAG can continue
  processing downstream tasks.

- upstream

  The effective weight is the aggregate sum of all upstream ancestors.
  This is the opposite where downstream tasks have higher weight
  and will be scheduled more aggressively when using positive weight
  values. This is useful when you have multiple DAG run instances
  and prefer to have each DAG complete before starting upstream
  tasks of other DAG runs.

- absolute

  The effective weight is the exact ``priority_weight`` specified
  without additional weighting. You may want to do this when you
  know exactly what priority weight each task should have.
  Additionally, when set to ``absolute``, there is bonus effect of
  significantly speeding up the task creation process as for very
  large DAGs

You can also implement your own weighting strategy by extending the class
:class:`~airflow.task.priority_strategy.PriorityWeightStrategy` and overriding the method
:meth:`~airflow.task.priority_strategy.PriorityWeightStrategy.get_weight`, the providing the path of your class
to the ``priority_weight_strategy`` parameter.


The ``priority_weight`` parameter can be used in conjunction with :ref:`concepts:pool`.
