docs/apache-airflow-providers-tabular/commits.rst, before:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

 .. NOTE! THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AND WILL BE
    OVERWRITTEN WHEN PREPARING PACKAGES.

 .. IF YOU WANT TO MODIFY THIS FILE, YOU SHOULD MODIFY THE TEMPLATE
    `PROVIDER_COMMITS_TEMPLATE.rst.jinja2` IN the `dev/breeze/src/airflow_breeze/templates` DIRECTORY

 .. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-tabular
------------------------------------------------------

`Tabular <https://tabular.io/>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``tabular``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.4.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-11

=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================================
`cd476acd8f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cd476acd8f1684f613c20dddaa9e988bcfb3ac1c>`_  2023-12-11   ``Follow BaseHook connection fields method signature in child classes (#36086)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================================================================

1.4.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`999b70178a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/999b70178a1f5d891fd2c88af4831a4ba4c2cbc9>`_  2023-12-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers December 2023 (#36112)``
`d0918d77ee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0918d77ee05ab08c83af6956e38584a48574590>`_  2023-12-07   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.6.0 (#36017)``
`0b23d5601c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b23d5601c6f833392b0ea816e651dcb13a14685>`_  2023-11-24   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers November 2023 (#35836)``
`99534e47f3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99534e47f330ce0efb96402629dda5b2a4f16e8f>`_  2023-11-19   ``Use reproducible builds for provider packages (#35693)``
`99df205f42 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99df205f42a754aa67f80b5983e1d228ff23267f>`_  2023-11-16   ``Fix and reapply templates for provider documentation (#35686)``
`1b059c57d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1b059c57d6d57d198463e5388138bee8a08591b1>`_  2023-11-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers November 2023 (#35537)``
`d1c58d86de <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d1c58d86de1267d9268a1efe0a0c102633c051a1>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 - FIX (#35233)``
`3592ff4046 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3592ff40465032fa041600be740ee6bc25e7c242>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 (#35187)``
`dd7ba3cae1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/dd7ba3cae139cb10d71c5ebc25fc496c67ee784e>`_  2023-10-19   ``Pre-upgrade 'ruff==0.0.292' changes in providers (#35053)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.3.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-10-13

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`e9987d5059 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e9987d50598f70d84cbb2a5d964e21020e81c080>`_  2023-10-13   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers in October 2023 (#34916)``
`0c8e30e43b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0c8e30e43b70e9d033e1686b327eb00aab82479c>`_  2023-10-05   ``Bump min airflow version of providers (#34728)``
`21990ed894 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21990ed8943ee4dc6e060ee2f11648490c714a3b>`_  2023-09-08   ``Prepare docs for 09 2023 - 1st wave of Providers (#34201)``
`c077d19060 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c077d190609f931387c1fcd7b8cc34f12e2372b9>`_  2023-08-26   ``Prepare docs for Aug 2023 3rd wave of Providers (#33730)``
`b5a4d36383 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b5a4d36383c4143f46e168b8b7a4ba2dc7c54076>`_  2023-08-11   ``Prepare docs for Aug 2023 2nd wave of Providers (#33291)``
`21e8f878a3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21e8f878a3c91250d0d198c6c3675b4b350fcb61>`_  2023-07-06   ``D205 Support - Providers: Snowflake to Zendesk (inclusive) (#32359)``
`225e3041d2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/225e3041d269698d0456e09586924c1898d09434>`_  2023-07-06   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (RC2) (#32381)``
`3878fe6fab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3878fe6fab3ccc1461932b456c48996f2763139f>`_  2023-07-05   ``Remove spurious headers for provider changelogs (#32373)``
`cb4927a018 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cb4927a01887e2413c45d8d9cb63e74aa994ee74>`_  2023-07-05   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (#32298)``
`09d4718d3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/09d4718d3a46aecf3355d14d3d23022002f4a818>`_  2023-06-27   ``Improve provider documentation and README structure (#32125)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.2.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-06-20

=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================
`79bcc2e668 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/79bcc2e668e648098aad6eaa87fe8823c76bc69a>`_  2023-06-20   ``Prepare RC1 docs for June 2023 wave of Providers (#32001)``
`8b146152d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8b146152d62118defb3004c997c89c99348ef948>`_  2023-06-20   ``Add note about dropping Python 3.7 for providers (#32015)``
`a59076eaee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a59076eaeed03dd46e749ad58160193b4ef3660c>`_  2023-06-02   ``Add D400 pydocstyle check - Providers (#31427)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================

1.2.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-05-19

=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
`45548b9451 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/45548b9451fba4e48c6f0c0ba6050482c2ea2956>`_  2023-05-19   ``Prepare RC2 docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31416)``
`abea189022 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abea18902257c0250fedb764edda462f9e5abc84>`_  2023-05-18   ``Use '__version__' in providers not 'version' (#31393)``
`f5aed58d9f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5aed58d9fb2137fa5f0e3ce75b6709bf8393a94>`_  2023-05-18   ``Fixing circular import error in providers caused by airflow version check (#31379)``
`d9ff55cf6d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d9ff55cf6d95bb342fed7a87613db7b9e7c8dd0f>`_  2023-05-16   ``Prepare docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31252)``
`eef5bc7f16 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/eef5bc7f166dc357fea0cc592d39714b1a5e3c14>`_  2023-05-03   ``Add full automation for min Airflow version for providers (#30994)``
`a7eb32a5b2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a7eb32a5b222e236454d3e474eec478ded7c368d>`_  2023-04-30   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers (#30917)``
`d23a3bbed8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d23a3bbed89ae04369983f21455bf85ccc1ae1cb>`_  2023-04-04   ``Add mechanism to suspend providers (#30422)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2022-11-15

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
`12c3c39d1a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12c3c39d1a816c99c626fe4c650e88cf7b1cc1bc>`_  2022-11-15   ``pRepare docs for November 2022 wave of Providers (#27613)``
`78b8ea2f22 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/78b8ea2f22239db3ef9976301234a66e50b47a94>`_  2022-10-24   ``Move min airflow version to 2.3.0 for all providers (#27196)``
`2a34dc9e84 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2a34dc9e8470285b0ed2db71109ef4265e29688b>`_  2022-10-23   ``Enable string normalization in python formatting - providers (#27205)``
`f8db64c35c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f8db64c35c8589840591021a48901577cff39c07>`_  2022-09-28   ``Update docs for September Provider's release (#26731)``
`06acf40a43 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/06acf40a4337759797f666d5bb27a5a393b74fed>`_  2022-09-13   ``Apply PEP-563 (Postponed Evaluation of Annotations) to non-core airflow (#26289)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================

1.0.1
.....

Latest change: 2022-07-17

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`abb0341135 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abb034113540b708e87379665a1b5caadb8748bc>`_  2022-07-17   ``Add documentation for follow-up release for june providers (#25111)``
`84b679937f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/84b679937f220fd06b4f639320d8d992120875e5>`_  2022-07-15   ``Set grant type of the Tabular hook (#25099)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2022-07-06

=================================================================================================  ===========  =================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =================================
`10273e3c63 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/10273e3c63e879c7d7f9e1039f0f32bb828fac3d>`_  2022-07-06   ``Add Tabular provider (#23704)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =================================

Commit message:

Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers January 2024

docs/apache-airflow-providers-tabular/commits.rst, after:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

 .. NOTE! THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AND WILL BE
    OVERWRITTEN WHEN PREPARING PACKAGES.

 .. IF YOU WANT TO MODIFY THIS FILE, YOU SHOULD MODIFY THE TEMPLATE
    `PROVIDER_COMMITS_TEMPLATE.rst.jinja2` IN the `dev/breeze/src/airflow_breeze/templates` DIRECTORY

 .. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-tabular
------------------------------------------------------

`Tabular <https://tabular.io/>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``tabular``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.5.0
.....

Latest change: 2024-01-10

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================================
`c439ab87c4 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c439ab87c421aaa6bd5d8074780e4f63606a1ef1>`_  2024-01-10   ``Standardize airflow build process and switch to Hatchling build backend (#36537)``
`6bd450da1e <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6bd450da1eb6cacc2ccfd4544d520ae059b75c3b>`_  2024-01-10   ``Provide the logger_name param in providers hooks in order to override the logger name (#36675)``
`19ebcac239 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/19ebcac2395ef9a6b6ded3a2faa29dc960c1e635>`_  2024-01-07   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers January 2024 (#36640)``
`6937ae7647 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/6937ae76476b3bc869ef912d000bcc94ad642db1>`_  2023-12-30   ``Speed up autocompletion of Breeze by simplifying provider state (#36499)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================================

1.4.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-23

=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================
`b15d5578da <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b15d5578dac73c4c6a3ca94d90ab0dc9e9e74c9c>`_  2023-12-23   ``Re-apply updated version numbers to 2nd wave of providers in December (#36380)``
`f5883d6e7b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5883d6e7be83f1ab9468e67164b7ac381fdb49f>`_  2023-12-23   ``Prepare 2nd wave of providers in December (#36373)``
`cd476acd8f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cd476acd8f1684f613c20dddaa9e988bcfb3ac1c>`_  2023-12-11   ``Follow BaseHook connection fields method signature in child classes (#36086)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ==================================================================================

1.4.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-12-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`999b70178a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/999b70178a1f5d891fd2c88af4831a4ba4c2cbc9>`_  2023-12-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers December 2023 (#36112)``
`d0918d77ee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d0918d77ee05ab08c83af6956e38584a48574590>`_  2023-12-07   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers to Airflow 2.6.0 (#36017)``
`0b23d5601c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0b23d5601c6f833392b0ea816e651dcb13a14685>`_  2023-11-24   ``Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers November 2023 (#35836)``
`99534e47f3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99534e47f330ce0efb96402629dda5b2a4f16e8f>`_  2023-11-19   ``Use reproducible builds for provider packages (#35693)``
`99df205f42 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99df205f42a754aa67f80b5983e1d228ff23267f>`_  2023-11-16   ``Fix and reapply templates for provider documentation (#35686)``
`1b059c57d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1b059c57d6d57d198463e5388138bee8a08591b1>`_  2023-11-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers November 2023 (#35537)``
`d1c58d86de <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d1c58d86de1267d9268a1efe0a0c102633c051a1>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 - FIX (#35233)``
`3592ff4046 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3592ff40465032fa041600be740ee6bc25e7c242>`_  2023-10-28   ``Prepare docs 3rd wave of Providers October 2023 (#35187)``
`dd7ba3cae1 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/dd7ba3cae139cb10d71c5ebc25fc496c67ee784e>`_  2023-10-19   ``Pre-upgrade 'ruff==0.0.292' changes in providers (#35053)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.3.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-10-13

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`e9987d5059 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/e9987d50598f70d84cbb2a5d964e21020e81c080>`_  2023-10-13   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers in October 2023 (#34916)``
`0c8e30e43b <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/0c8e30e43b70e9d033e1686b327eb00aab82479c>`_  2023-10-05   ``Bump min airflow version of providers (#34728)``
`21990ed894 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21990ed8943ee4dc6e060ee2f11648490c714a3b>`_  2023-09-08   ``Prepare docs for 09 2023 - 1st wave of Providers (#34201)``
`c077d19060 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/c077d190609f931387c1fcd7b8cc34f12e2372b9>`_  2023-08-26   ``Prepare docs for Aug 2023 3rd wave of Providers (#33730)``
`b5a4d36383 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/b5a4d36383c4143f46e168b8b7a4ba2dc7c54076>`_  2023-08-11   ``Prepare docs for Aug 2023 2nd wave of Providers (#33291)``
`21e8f878a3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/21e8f878a3c91250d0d198c6c3675b4b350fcb61>`_  2023-07-06   ``D205 Support - Providers: Snowflake to Zendesk (inclusive) (#32359)``
`225e3041d2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/225e3041d269698d0456e09586924c1898d09434>`_  2023-07-06   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (RC2) (#32381)``
`3878fe6fab <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/3878fe6fab3ccc1461932b456c48996f2763139f>`_  2023-07-05   ``Remove spurious headers for provider changelogs (#32373)``
`cb4927a018 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cb4927a01887e2413c45d8d9cb63e74aa994ee74>`_  2023-07-05   ``Prepare docs for July 2023 wave of Providers (#32298)``
`09d4718d3a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/09d4718d3a46aecf3355d14d3d23022002f4a818>`_  2023-06-27   ``Improve provider documentation and README structure (#32125)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.2.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-06-20

=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================
`79bcc2e668 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/79bcc2e668e648098aad6eaa87fe8823c76bc69a>`_  2023-06-20   ``Prepare RC1 docs for June 2023 wave of Providers (#32001)``
`8b146152d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/8b146152d62118defb3004c997c89c99348ef948>`_  2023-06-20   ``Add note about dropping Python 3.7 for providers (#32015)``
`a59076eaee <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a59076eaeed03dd46e749ad58160193b4ef3660c>`_  2023-06-02   ``Add D400 pydocstyle check - Providers (#31427)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================

1.2.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-05-19

=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
`45548b9451 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/45548b9451fba4e48c6f0c0ba6050482c2ea2956>`_  2023-05-19   ``Prepare RC2 docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31416)``
`abea189022 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abea18902257c0250fedb764edda462f9e5abc84>`_  2023-05-18   ``Use '__version__' in providers not 'version' (#31393)``
`f5aed58d9f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f5aed58d9fb2137fa5f0e3ce75b6709bf8393a94>`_  2023-05-18   ``Fixing circular import error in providers caused by airflow version check (#31379)``
`d9ff55cf6d <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d9ff55cf6d95bb342fed7a87613db7b9e7c8dd0f>`_  2023-05-16   ``Prepare docs for May 2023 wave of Providers (#31252)``
`eef5bc7f16 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/eef5bc7f166dc357fea0cc592d39714b1a5e3c14>`_  2023-05-03   ``Add full automation for min Airflow version for providers (#30994)``
`a7eb32a5b2 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/a7eb32a5b222e236454d3e474eec478ded7c368d>`_  2023-04-30   ``Bump minimum Airflow version in providers (#30917)``
`d23a3bbed8 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/d23a3bbed89ae04369983f21455bf85ccc1ae1cb>`_  2023-04-04   ``Add mechanism to suspend providers (#30422)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================

1.1.0
.....

Latest change: 2022-11-15

=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================
`12c3c39d1a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/12c3c39d1a816c99c626fe4c650e88cf7b1cc1bc>`_  2022-11-15   ``pRepare docs for November 2022 wave of Providers (#27613)``
`78b8ea2f22 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/78b8ea2f22239db3ef9976301234a66e50b47a94>`_  2022-10-24   ``Move min airflow version to 2.3.0 for all providers (#27196)``
`2a34dc9e84 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/2a34dc9e8470285b0ed2db71109ef4265e29688b>`_  2022-10-23   ``Enable string normalization in python formatting - providers (#27205)``
`f8db64c35c <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/f8db64c35c8589840591021a48901577cff39c07>`_  2022-09-28   ``Update docs for September Provider's release (#26731)``
`06acf40a43 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/06acf40a4337759797f666d5bb27a5a393b74fed>`_  2022-09-13   ``Apply PEP-563 (Postponed Evaluation of Annotations) to non-core airflow (#26289)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ====================================================================================

1.0.1
.....

Latest change: 2022-07-17

=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================
`abb0341135 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/abb034113540b708e87379665a1b5caadb8748bc>`_  2022-07-17   ``Add documentation for follow-up release for june providers (#25111)``
`84b679937f <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/84b679937f220fd06b4f639320d8d992120875e5>`_  2022-07-15   ``Set grant type of the Tabular hook (#25099)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =======================================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2022-07-06

=================================================================================================  ===========  =================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =================================
`10273e3c63 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/10273e3c63e879c7d7f9e1039f0f32bb828fac3d>`_  2022-07-06   ``Add Tabular provider (#23704)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =================================
