airflow-core/docs/core-concepts/xcoms.rst, before:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


.. _concepts:xcom:

XComs
=====

XComs (short for "cross-communications") are a mechanism that let :doc:`tasks` talk to each other, as by default Tasks are entirely isolated and may be running on entirely different machines.

An XCom is identified by a ``key`` (essentially its name), as well as the ``task_id`` and ``dag_id`` it came from. They can have any serializable value (including objects that are decorated with ``@dataclass`` or ``@attr.define``, see :ref:`TaskFlow arguments <concepts:arbitrary-arguments>`:), but they are only designed for small amounts of data; do not use them to pass around large values, like dataframes.

XCom operations should be performed through the Task Context using
:func:`~airflow.sdk.get_current_context`. Directly updating using XCom database model is not possible.

XComs are explicitly "pushed" and "pulled" to/from their storage using the ``xcom_push`` and ``xcom_pull`` methods on Task Instances.

To push a value within a task called **"task-1"** that will be used by another task:

.. code-block:: python

    # pushes data in any_serializable_value into xcom with key "identifier as string"
    task_instance.xcom_push(key="identifier as a string", value=any_serializable_value)

To pull the value that was pushed in the code above in a different task:

.. code-block:: python

    # pulls the xcom variable with key "identifier as string" that was pushed from within task-1
    task_instance.xcom_pull(key="identifier as string", task_ids="task-1")

Many operators will auto-push their results into an XCom key called ``return_value`` if the ``do_xcom_push`` argument is set to ``True`` (as it is by default), and ``@task`` functions do this as well. ``xcom_pull`` defaults to using ``return_value`` as key if no key is passed to it, meaning it's possible to write code like this::

    # Pulls the return_value XCOM from "pushing_task"
    value = task_instance.xcom_pull(task_ids='pushing_task')

You can also use XComs in :ref:`templates <concepts:jinja-templating>`::

    SELECT * FROM {{ task_instance.xcom_pull(task_ids='foo', key='table_name') }}

XComs are a relative of :doc:`variables`, with the main difference being that XComs are per-task-instance and designed for communication within a Dag run, while Variables are global and designed for overall configuration and value sharing.

If you want to push multiple XComs at once you can set ``do_xcom_push`` and ``multiple_outputs`` arguments to ``True``, and then return a dictionary of values.

An example of pushing multiple XComs and pulling them individually:

.. code-block:: python

    # A task returning a dictionary
    @task(do_xcom_push=True, multiple_outputs=True)
    def push_multiple(**context):
        return {"key1": "value1", "key2": "value2"}


    @task
    def xcom_pull_with_multiple_outputs(**context):
        # Pulling a specific key from the multiple outputs
        key1 = context["ti"].xcom_pull(task_ids="push_multiple", key="key1")  # to pull key1
        key2 = context["ti"].xcom_pull(task_ids="push_multiple", key="key2")  # to pull key2

        # Pulling entire xcom data from push_multiple task
        data = context["ti"].xcom_pull(task_ids="push_multiple", key="return_value")

.. note::

  If the first task was not successful then on every retry task XComs will be cleared to make the task run idempotent. XComs therefore can't be used to persist state across task retries or :doc:`./sensors` poke.


Object Storage XCom Backend
---------------------------

The default XCom backend, BaseXCom, stores XComs in the Airflow database, which works well for small values but can cause issues with large values or a high volume of XComs. To overcome this limitation, object storage is recommended for efficiently handling larger data. For a detailed overview, refer to the :doc:`documentation <apache-airflow-providers-common-io:xcom_backend>`.


Custom XCom Backends
--------------------

The XCom system has interchangeable backends, and you can set which backend is being used via the ``xcom_backend`` configuration option.

If you want to implement your own backend, you should subclass :class:`~airflow.sdk.bases.xcom.BaseXCom`, and override the ``serialize_value`` and ``deserialize_value`` methods.

You can override the ``purge`` method in the ``BaseXCom`` class to have control over purging the xcom data from the custom backend. This will be called as part of ``delete``.

Verifying Custom XCom Backend usage in Containers
-------------------------------------------------

Depending on where Airflow is deployed i.e., local, Docker, K8s, etc. it can be useful to be assured that a custom XCom backend is actually being initialized. For example, the complexity of the container environment can make it more difficult to determine if your backend is being loaded correctly during container deployment. Luckily the following guidance can be used to assist you in building confidence in your custom XCom implementation.

If you can exec into a terminal in an Airflow container, you can then print out the actual XCom class that is being used:

.. code-block:: python

    from airflow.sdk.execution_time.xcom import XCom

    print(XCom.__name__)

Commit message:

Improve XCom documentation by clarifying usage of XCOM_RETURN_KEY constant (#58356)
Co-authored-by: Amogh Desai <amoghrajesh1999@gmail.com>

airflow-core/docs/core-concepts/xcoms.rst, after:

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


.. _concepts:xcom:

XComs
=====

XComs (short for "cross-communications") are a mechanism that let :doc:`tasks` talk to each other, as by default Tasks are entirely isolated and may be running on entirely different machines.

An XCom is identified by a ``key`` (essentially its name), as well as the ``task_id`` and ``dag_id`` it came from. They can have any serializable value (including objects that are decorated with ``@dataclass`` or ``@attr.define``, see :ref:`TaskFlow arguments <concepts:arbitrary-arguments>`:), but they are only designed for small amounts of data; do not use them to pass around large values, like dataframes.

XCom operations should be performed through the Task Context using
:func:`~airflow.sdk.get_current_context`. Directly updating using XCom database model is not possible.

XComs are explicitly "pushed" and "pulled" to/from their storage using the ``xcom_push`` and ``xcom_pull`` methods on Task Instances.

To push a value within a task called **"task-1"** that will be used by another task:

.. code-block:: python

    # pushes data in any_serializable_value into XCom with key "identifier as string"
    task_instance.xcom_push(key="identifier as a string", value=any_serializable_value)

To pull the value that was pushed in the code above in a different task:

.. code-block:: python

    # pulls the XCom variable with key "identifier as string" that was pushed from within task-1
    task_instance.xcom_pull(key="identifier as string", task_ids="task-1")

Many operators will auto-push their results into an XCom key called ``return_value`` if the ``do_xcom_push`` argument is set to ``True`` (as it is by default), and ``@task`` functions do this as well. ``xcom_pull`` defaults to using ``return_value`` as key if no key is passed to it, meaning it's possible to write code like this::

    # Pulls the return_value XCOM from "pushing_task"
    value = task_instance.xcom_pull(task_ids='pushing_task')

The return_value key (default key with which XComs are pushed) is defined as a constant XCOM_RETURN_KEY in the :class:`~airflow.sdk.bases.xcom.BaseXCom` class and can be accessed as BaseXCom.XCOM_RETURN_KEY.

You can also use XComs in :ref:`templates <concepts:jinja-templating>`::

    SELECT * FROM {{ task_instance.xcom_pull(task_ids='foo', key='table_name') }}

XComs are a relative of :doc:`variables`, with the main difference being that XComs are per-task-instance and designed for communication within a Dag run, while Variables are global and designed for overall configuration and value sharing.

If you want to push multiple XComs at once you can set ``do_xcom_push`` and ``multiple_outputs`` arguments to ``True``, and then return a dictionary of values.

An example of pushing multiple XComs and pulling them individually:

.. code-block:: python

    # A task returning a dictionary
    @task(do_xcom_push=True, multiple_outputs=True)
    def push_multiple(**context):
        return {"key1": "value1", "key2": "value2"}


    @task
    def xcom_pull_with_multiple_outputs(**context):
        # Pulling a specific key from the multiple outputs
        key1 = context["ti"].xcom_pull(task_ids="push_multiple", key="key1")  # to pull key1
        key2 = context["ti"].xcom_pull(task_ids="push_multiple", key="key2")  # to pull key2

        # Pulling entire XCom data from push_multiple task
        data = context["ti"].xcom_pull(task_ids="push_multiple", key="return_value")

.. note::

  If the first task was not successful then on every retry task XComs will be cleared to make the task run idempotent. XComs therefore can't be used to persist state across task retries or :doc:`./sensors` poke.


Object Storage XCom Backend
---------------------------

The default XCom backend, BaseXCom, stores XComs in the Airflow database, which works well for small values but can cause issues with large values or a high volume of XComs. To overcome this limitation, object storage is recommended for efficiently handling larger data. For a detailed overview, refer to the :doc:`documentation <apache-airflow-providers-common-io:xcom_backend>`.


Custom XCom Backends
--------------------

The XCom system has interchangeable backends, and you can set which backend is being used via the ``xcom_backend`` configuration option.

If you want to implement your own backend, you should subclass :class:`~airflow.sdk.bases.xcom.BaseXCom`, and override the ``serialize_value`` and ``deserialize_value`` methods.

You can override the ``purge`` method in the ``BaseXCom`` class to have control over purging the XCom data from the custom backend. This will be called as part of ``delete``.

Verifying Custom XCom Backend usage in Containers
-------------------------------------------------

Depending on where Airflow is deployed i.e., local, Docker, K8s, etc. it can be useful to be assured that a custom XCom backend is actually being initialized. For example, the complexity of the container environment can make it more difficult to determine if your backend is being loaded correctly during container deployment. Luckily the following guidance can be used to assist you in building confidence in your custom XCom implementation.

If you can exec into a terminal in an Airflow container, you can then print out the actual XCom class that is being used:

.. code-block:: python

    from airflow.sdk.execution_time.xcom import XCom

    print(XCom.__name__)
