docs/apache-airflow-providers-apache-spark/decorators/pyspark.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.



.. _howto/decorator:pyspark:

PySpark Decorator
=================

Python callable wrapped within the ``@task.pyspark`` decorator
is injected with a SparkContext object.

Parameters
----------

The following parameters can be passed to the decorator:

conn_id: str
    The connection ID to use for connecting to the Spark cluster. If not
    specified, the spark master is set to ``local[*]``.
config_kwargs: dict
    The kwargs used for initializing the SparkConf object. This overrides
    the spark configuration options set in the connection.


Example
-------

The following example shows how to use the ``@task.pyspark`` decorator. Note
that the ``spark`` and ``sc`` objects are injected into the function.

.. exampleinclude:: /../../tests/system/providers/apache/spark/example_pyspark.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :start-after: [START task_pyspark]
    :end-before: [END task_pyspark]

Commit message:

Add support for Spark Connect to pyspark decorator
In Apache Spark 3.4 Spark Connect was introduced which
allows remote connectivity to remote Spark CLuster using
the DataFrame API.

docs/apache-airflow-providers-apache-spark/decorators/pyspark.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.



.. _howto/decorator:pyspark:

PySpark Decorator
=================

Python callable wrapped within the ``@task.pyspark`` decorator
is injected with a SparkSession and SparkContext object if available.

Parameters
----------

The following parameters can be passed to the decorator:

conn_id: str
    The connection ID to use for connecting to the Spark cluster. If not
    specified, the spark master is set to ``local[*]``.
config_kwargs: dict
    The kwargs used for initializing the SparkConf object. This overrides
    the spark configuration options set in the connection.


Example
-------

The following example shows how to use the ``@task.pyspark`` decorator. Note
that the ``spark`` and ``sc`` objects are injected into the function.

.. exampleinclude:: /../../tests/system/providers/apache/spark/example_pyspark.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :start-after: [START task_pyspark]
    :end-before: [END task_pyspark]


Spark Connect
-------------

In `Apache Spark 3.4 <https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/spark-connect-overview.html>`_,
Spark Connect introduced a decoupled client-server architecture
that allows remote connectivity to Spark clusters using the DataFrame API. Using
Spark Connect is the preferred way in Airflow to make use of the PySpark decorator,
because it does not require to run the Spark driver on the same host as Airflow.
To make use of Spark Connect, you prepend your host url with ``sc://``. For example,
``sc://spark-cluster:15002``.


Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Spark Connect does not have built-in authentication. The gRPC HTTP/2 interface however
allows the use of authentication to communicate with the Spark Connect server through
authenticating proxies. To make use of authentication make sure to create a ``Spark Connect``
connection and set the right credentials.
