Removed deprecated metrics configuration.

   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_allow_list`` from ``metrics``. Please use ``metrics_allow_list`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_block_list`` from ``metrics``. Please use ``metrics_block_list`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_on`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_on`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_host`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_host`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_port`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_port`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_prefix`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_prefix`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_allow_list`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_allow_list`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``stat_name_handler`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``stat_name_handler`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_datadog_enabled`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_datadog_enabled`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_datadog_tags`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_datadog_tags`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_datadog_metrics_tags`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_datadog_metrics_tags`` from ``metrics`` instead.
   * Removed deprecated configuration ``statsd_custom_client_path`` from ``scheduler``. Please use ``statsd_custom_client_path`` from ``metrics`` instead.

* Types of change

  * [ ] DAG changes
  * [ ] Config changes
  * [ ] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [ ] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency change

.. List the migration rules needed for this change (see https://github.com/apache/airflow/issues/41641)

* Migration rules needed

.. e.g.,
.. * Remove context key ``execution_date``
.. * context key ``triggering_dataset_events`` → ``triggering_asset_events``
.. * Remove method ``airflow.providers_manager.ProvidersManager.initialize_providers_dataset_uri_resources`` → ``airflow.providers_manager.ProvidersManager.initialize_providers_asset_uri_resources``
