Removed deprecated database configuration.

  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_conn`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_conn`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_engine_encoding`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_engine_encoding`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_engine_collation_for_ids`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_engine_collation_for_ids`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_pool_enabled`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_pool_enabled`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_pool_size`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_pool_size`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_max_overflow`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_max_overflow`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_pool_recycle`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_pool_recycle`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_pool_pre_ping`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_pool_pre_ping`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_schema`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_schema`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``sql_alchemy_connect_args`` from ``core``. Please use ``sql_alchemy_connect_args`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``load_default_connections`` from ``core``. Please use ``load_default_connections`` from ``database`` instead.
  * Removed deprecated configuration ``max_db_retries`` from ``core``. Please use ``max_db_retries`` from ``database`` instead.

* Types of change

  * [ ] Dag changes
  * [x] Config changes
  * [ ] API changes
  * [ ] CLI changes
  * [ ] Behaviour changes
  * [ ] Plugin changes
  * [ ] Dependency changes
  * [ ] Code interface changes

* Migration rules needed


  * ``airflow config lint``

    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_conn`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_conn``
    * [x] ``core.sql_engine_encoding`` → ``database.sql_engine_encoding``
    * [x] ``core.sql_engine_collation_for_ids`` → ``database.sql_engine_collation_for_ids``
    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_pool_enabled`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_pool_enabled``
    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_pool_size`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_pool_size``
    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_max_overflow`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_max_overflow``
    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_pool_recycle`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_pool_recycle``
    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_pool_pre_ping`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_pool_pre_ping``
    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_schema`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_schema``
    * [x] ``core.sql_alchemy_connect_args`` → ``database.sql_alchemy_connect_args``
    * [x] ``core.load_default_connections`` → ``database.load_default_connections``
    * [x] ``core.max_db_retries`` → ``database.max_db_retries``
