docs/apache-airflow-providers-openai/commits.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-openai
------------------------------------------------------

`OpenAI <https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``openai``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-11-07

=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================
`cca4aa4e9a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cca4aa4e9ab545c8aab01b05941a372044668a67>`_  2023-11-07   ``Add OpenAI Provider (#35023)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ================================

Commit message:

Prepare docs 2nd wave of Providers November 2023

docs/apache-airflow-providers-openai/commits.rst, after:


 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

 .. NOTE! THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AND WILL BE
    OVERWRITTEN WHEN PREPARING PACKAGES.

 .. IF YOU WANT TO MODIFY THIS FILE, YOU SHOULD MODIFY THE TEMPLATE
    `PROVIDER_COMMITS_TEMPLATE.rst.jinja2` IN the `dev/breeze/src/airflow_breeze/templates` DIRECTORY

 .. THE REMAINDER OF THE FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. IT WILL BE OVERWRITTEN AT RELEASE TIME!

Package apache-airflow-providers-openai
------------------------------------------------------

`OpenAI <https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction>`__


This is detailed commit list of changes for versions provider package: ``openai``.
For high-level changelog, see :doc:`package information including changelog <index>`.



1.0.1
.....

Latest change: 2023-11-19

=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================
`99534e47f3 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99534e47f330ce0efb96402629dda5b2a4f16e8f>`_  2023-11-19   ``Use reproducible builds for provider packages (#35693)``
`99df205f42 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/99df205f42a754aa67f80b5983e1d228ff23267f>`_  2023-11-16   ``Fix and reapply templates for provider documentation (#35686)``
`acb9458d09 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/acb9458d096f956b319c2b121cbcd01489492491>`_  2023-11-14   ``Refine Type Handling in OpenAI Embedding Operator to Match OpenAI Typings (#35547)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  ======================================================================================

1.0.0
.....

Latest change: 2023-11-08

=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================
Commit                                                                                             Committed    Subject
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================
`1b059c57d6 <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/1b059c57d6d57d198463e5388138bee8a08591b1>`_  2023-11-08   ``Prepare docs 1st wave of Providers November 2023 (#35537)``
`cca4aa4e9a <https://github.com/apache/airflow/commit/cca4aa4e9ab545c8aab01b05941a372044668a67>`_  2023-11-07   ``Add OpenAI Provider (#35023)``
=================================================================================================  ===========  =============================================================
